%R 2015k2.propGO10070
%T The K2 Extragalactic Survey (KEGS) for Transients
%A Shaya, Ed; Olling, Robert P; Rest, Armin; Kasen, Daniel Nathan; Garnavich, Peter M.; Tucker, Brad E; Mushotzky, Richard 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 10 Guest Observer Proposal GO10070
%D 07/2015
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO10070
%B Supernovae (SN) and Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) vary on timescales of hours to months and are still shrouded in mystery. We propose a Large K2 Program to monitor ~2000 bright (r < 18 mag, z < 0.1) galaxies in Campaign 8 and ~2600 in Campaign 10 which should yield 12 - 24 great light curves (LCs) of supernovae. To date, we have identified 6 supernovae in Kepler GO programs (3 Type Ia and 3 Type II, although one may be Type IIn/Ia-csm), and we also found that ~ 4% of our galaxies display AGN activity (Shaya et al 2015) (variable at > 0.001% level). We plan to: a) determine the types of companions to progenitors of SNe using features in the early breakout (t < 4 days) LCs; b) explore the explosion physics of SN, especially SN Ia, using subtle features during their rise (t < 20 days); c) improve the calibration of SN Ia as standard candles for measuring distances, Ho, and dark energy using K2 LCs of unprecedented detail; d) in nearby galaxies, look for fast (t < 10 day) and faint (Mv > -15) transients in a new range of parameter space provided by K2; and e) add significant knowledge to the virtually unexplored very low-Eddington regime of AGN. 

There is an ongoing controversy over the basic physics of one of the key tools in cosmology, the SN Ia standard candle. Do SNe Ia gradually reach critical mass via accretion from a companion star or does it merge with another WD? If a white dwarf had been accreting mass from a companion star, as the ejecta reaches the companion a shock would form with observable optical emission (Kasen 2010). The emission would be short lived and strongest from certain viewing angles, requiring rapid cadence for several SNe before definitive conclusions can be reached. For the 3 SN Ia discovered by Kepler monitoring of ~500 galaxies (Olling et al. 2015), no companions were indicated and tight constraints were placed. With a larger sample, we could determine the statistics for the two possible channels that trigger SN Ia. Meanwhile, features due to the different explosion physics (detonation, deflagration, inwards-moving diffusion waves, etc) of Ia and core collapse SNe will also be revealed. K2 will allow for the first time to test models more complicated than simple "expanding fireballs." 

Our program will improve the calibration of SN Ia's for distance measurements. By determining correlations among the key parameters needed for distance fitting (light-curve width, maximum, and the explosion time) on the scale of minutes rather than days, this program will improve the precision of distances and hence the values of Ho and dark energy as a function of redshift. 

We will undertake a major, concurrent ground-based effort to observe the entire field every other day using SkyMapper and ATLAS Pathfinder. We will also coordinate multi-color photometry and spectra to classify discovered transients using PESSTO, and existing programs at Siding Spring, Lick, Gemini, and Keck. These data, coupled with high precision 30 minute K2 data will have enormous legacy value. 

In addition this program will also be sensitive to LBV- and nova-like eruptions, tidal shredding of stars or other material by super-massive black holes, and other still unknown types of faint, fast transients in the nearer galaxies of our sample. 

Methods: 
We are exploring techniques to detrend sensitivity changes over the short (daily) and long terms (months). We use correlations of brightness with centroid position and width similar to the kepsff tool of the Pyke Software suite and are creating Cotrending Basis Vectors based on our target galaxies. Both methods can be applied to the quiet time before a SN event and then extrapolated passed the onset. For AGN, we use the minimum number of CBVs that eliminate the instrumental noise but leave physical variations intact. 

References: 
Kasen. 2010,AJ,708,1025 
Olling, Mushotzky, Shaya, et al. 2015, Nature,521,332335 
Shaya, Olling, Mushotzky. 2015, submitted to AJ