%R 2015k2.propGO6016
%T Statistics of Variability in Main-Sequence Stars of Kepler 2 Fields 6 and 7
%A Guzik, Joyce Ann; Bradley, Paul A; Jackiewicz, Jason; Kinemuchi, Karen; Nelson, Nicholas; Kosak, Katie 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 6 Guest Observer Proposal GO6016
%D 02/2015
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO6016
%B We propose to observe with the Kepler spacecraft in long-cadence mode about one thousand main-sequence stars in each of K2 Fields 6 and 7.  Our goal is to discover new pulsating variables, as well as eclipsing binaries and magnetically active stars with variability produced by rotating spots.  We will use colors and magnitudes listed in the EPIC catalog to select main-sequence stars with Kepler magnitude between approximately 8 and 12.   Our selection of stars in this magnitude range will minimize the number of pixels required, yet the stars will be bright enough for ground-based ground-based follow-up observations including high-resolution spectroscopic observations.

Observations by the Kepler spacecraft have turned out to be ideal for discovery and characterization of pulsations of main-sequence stars that pulsate in radial and non-radial pressure and gravity modes.  The long time series and high precision of the photometry have enabled determining the frequencies and amplitudes of the modes with periods of order a day (g modes) to a few hours (p and mixed modes) using long-cadence data (30-min integrations per data point).    Analysis of the Kepler data has raised a number of questions about the possible pulsation driving mechanisms for gamma Doradus g-mode and delta Scuti p-mode pulsations, and revealed a surprising number of hybrid star candidates that show pulsations in both types of modes.  The Kepler data has also been used to study slowly pulsating B (SPB) stars (g-mode pulsators), beta Cephei stars (p-mode pulsators) and their hybrids to test stellar pulsation theory in the presumably simpler case for these hotter stars with smaller envelope convection zones.  The analysis has also identified a number of apparently non-pulsating stars that lie within the pulsation instability regions established by theory that need to be explained.  We expect to increase the numbers of these types of stars available for detailed study, especially for candidates brighter than those found in the original Kepler field.   We also expect to discover additional eclipsing binaries and magnetically active stars.  

Our sample selection will not be biased toward known pulsators, and will include enough stars to derive statistics of the occurrence of variability.  We will compare our results with similar surveys of stars in the original Kepler Cygnus-Lyra field, and with surveys of stars in young open clusters for K2 Fields 0-5.   We will also produce a catalog of all of the candidate variables, eclipsing binaries, and magnetically active stars that we find.