%R 2015k2.propGO9907
%T Probing the Internal Mixing Processes and Angular Momentum Transport in B-type Hybrid Pulsators on the Main Sequence
%A Pápics, Péter I. 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 9 Guest Observer Proposal GO9907
%D 07/2015
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO9907
%B Towards more massive stars (stars having a convective core and a radiative envelope) along the main sequence, stellar lifetime becomes strongly influenced by internal mixing processes such as core overshooting, diffusion, and rotation. Our knowledge of these processes is very limited, and this lack of understanding results in large uncertainties on current stellar structure and evolution models of massive stars. As these models are important cornerstones for several fields of modern astrophysics (e.g., chemical enrichment of galaxies, stellar life cycles and their effects on star and planetary system formation, dynamics of stellar clusters, etc.), these shortcomings need to be resolved.

Asteroseismology is one of the few tools that allow us to study the interiors of stars by the interpretation of their pulsation signal. The last decade brought an immense revolution to the field thanks to the succes of space telescopes such as CoRoT and Kepler, and thanks to vast improvements of asteroseismological techniques. While the nominal Kepler mission already delivered the long-sought-after revolution in stellar physics for solar-like stars and red giants, similar achievements were not possible for massive stars as most of these targets were avoided in the FoV. The scanning nature of the K2 mission provides a few selected fields in or very near the galactic plane that are rich in OB stars, and with this proposal our goal is to exploit the special opportunity given by the position of Field 9 on the Galactic plane to extend K2’s legacy towards the calibration of stellar structure and evolution models of massive stars using hybrid pulsator B dwarves.

We propose the observation of 27 potential hybrid pulsators, which have been selected based on their spectral type and brightness. We propose the relatively brighter stars to avoid serious crowding issues and because for these stars we can conduct simultaneous and follow-up observations with the high-resolution HERMES spectrograph and the 3-channel MAIA CCD camera installed on the 1.2 meter Mercator Telescope on La Palma (operated by the host institute of the PI and the Co-Is, the Institute of Astronomy, KU Leuven).