%R 2015k2.propGO7028
%T Expanding the K2 Legacy
%A Buzasi, Derek L; Preston, Heather 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 7 Guest Observer Proposal GO7028
%D 02/2015
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO7028
%B 1. Science Goals and Objectives

The K2 mission has in a short time proven to be a successful successor to Kepler despite limitations in both pointing and observational duration. As with the original mission, pixels from the entire frame are not generally downloaded due to date rate limitations; instead, only predefined postage stamps surrounding the primary targets are made available. As characterization of the mission has improved, postage stamp sizes have shrunk and are now typically 16 x 16 pixels (approximately 1 arc minute square), with some exceptions such as areas surrounding open clusters or particularly bright targets. Even these small postage stamps generally contain several secondary targets in addition to the primary target.

Pipeline data reduction to produce time series from the postage stamps is not provided by the project, and a small number of groups have therefore solved this problem independently (see, e.g. Vanderburg & Johnson 2014, Buzasi et al. 2015), and many of these plan to make their data available to the community. An important distinction of the PIs pipeline is that we can produce light curves for all of the (well-separated) stellar targets in each field of view. We propose to produce light curves for all of the secondary targets in each K2 field of view, perform planet searches in each of those time series, and release the time series to the community.

Note that we are not requesting specific targets, but will take advantage of the fields requested by others to enable us to examine an unbiased (or less-biased) sample. Given the estimated 10,000 primary targets in each pointing, we conservatively estimate that we will produce light curves for 20,000 secondary targets.

2. Methodology

Our pipeline identifies targets in each field which are well-separated enough for accurate photometry and determines appropriate extraction mask sizes and shapes by minimizing noise at multiple user-selectable frequencies. We then generate time series using aperture photometry, and iteratively detrend the time series against CCD position and background level. As presented in Buzasi et al. (2015), we have found that this procedure produces light curves with noise levels less than twice that of the original mission.
 
We will perform planet searches in the resulting time series using both matched-filter approaches and a citizen science method inspired by the Planet Hunters program (http://www.planethunters.org). In the latter case, a year-long honors program course taught by the PI at Florida Gulf Coast University will visually examine light curves generated by the pipeline, taking advantage of human pattern recognition skills to identify periodic transit-like events. Students will follow up with more detailed analysis to produce planet candidate lists. We anticipate that the citizen science approach will find most of the hot Jupiters in the sample, while the matched-filter approach will be more suited to smaller candidates. Candidate lists and light curves will be publicly released to enable other researchers to verify our findings and perform their own searches, as well as to perform other science such as asteroseismology. We will also work with a local planetarium to produce public outreach products.

3. Relevance

While the K2 mission is a general-user facility and lacks primary science objectives, clearly exoplanet science continues to generate the most excitement connected with the missions, and we will focus our attention on that aspect. However, the light curves we will produce and release will include a wide variety of different kinds of objects, including potentially source types we have not yet seen with either Kepler or K2, and thus will be of the broadest scientific interest and relevance to NASA science objectives. Our educational and public outreach components will further contribute to the significance of the proposed project to NASA.