%R 2015k2.propGO8066
%T Catch K2-Twos: Finding the Best Planets for Ground-Based Follow Up Spectrophotometry
%A Mandell, Avi M; Morris, Brett M; Huitson, Catherine; Angerhausen, Daniel 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 8 Guest Observer Proposal GO8066
%D 07/2015
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO8066
%B Studying extrasolar planets is one of the major frontiers of astronomy today.  The field has transformed from simple identification to comprehensive categorization and characterization of exoplanets and exoplanetary systems. Analyses of data provided by the NASA's Kepler mission has revolutionized this field by compiling a statistically significant number of transiting planets and planetary candidates, providing  time series data for a large sample of systems that can be utilized in consistent comparative studies (e.g. Angerhausen et al., 2015).

One promising new way to further characterize some of these transiting systems are methods using ground-based multi-object spectrographs for transit and eclipse spectrophotometry such as GMOS in the optical (e.g. Stevenson et al., 2014; Huitson et al., 2015, in prep.) or MOSFIRE in the infrared (e.g. Crossfield et al., 2013; Morris et al, 2015, subm.).  These emerging ground-based methods allow access to larger apertures and better time-sampling of transit lightcurves than equivalent HST methods. They therefore have the potential to observe transits at the precisions achievable from space but at a fraction of the cost and with the possibility of repeated measurements in wavelength bands not available from space until the start of JWST. 

However, most of the planets found by the Kepler telescope have host stars that are too faint to be followed up with spectrophotometric techniques even with space based platforms such as Hubble or Spitzer. The ground-based methods are even further constrained by the need for similarly bright comparison stars in close neighborhood to the observed host star of the transiting system. In order to reduce instrumental systematics and optimize the time-sampling needed for transit atmosphere observations, the comparison stars must be bright, of similar magnitude to the exoplanet host star and be within a few arcmin.

To identify ideal candidates for ground-based characterization studies, we therefore we propose to use the single, visible wavelength instrument on board of K2 to obtain high-precision long cadence photometry on of the best suited 500 pairs of similarly bright stars (mag < 12, separation < 5 arcmin). Assuming an occurrence of well-vetted planet candidates with P d 30 d of about ~2%, we expect to find ~20 systems that will be accessible for spectrophotometric follow up from the ground.

The goal of high precision time resolved photometry is to reduce or in the best case remove all noise to achieve photon-noise limited photometry. After years of experience with these data a number of best practices for their handling have emerged: For the reduction and preparation of K2 data as well as for the planet search in the reduced data, we have access to a number of standard procedures that are already widely used in the community (e.g. the PyKe tools,  Barclay & Still 2012;  K2 specific best practices, Foreman-Mackey et al. 2015; or SIP, Angus et al. 2015).  

Finding these extremely valuable targets will enable us to do exactly the kind of basic research that advances our knowledge by characterization of planets and planetary systems outside of our Solar System in order to determine their compositions, dynamics, energetics, and chemical behaviors. The proposed study will directly support NASAs goal to Discover and study planets around other stars, in order to understand the underlying physical processes of exoplanets and to improve understanding of their origins.