%R 2015k2.propGO8028
%T The heat is on: exoplanets that orbit Hot stars
%A Quarles, Billy L; Antoci, Victoria; Rowe, Jason Frank 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 8 Guest Observer Proposal GO8028
%D 07/2015
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO8028
%B Science Goals Objectives: The Kepler Mission has discovered a few thousand planet candidates, which has allowed for a statistical determination of planet size and orbital characterization.   In particular, multi-planet systems, where more than one planet is seen transiting a star have provided a wealth of information covering statistical confirmations, eccentricity distributions, mutual inclinations and dynamical stability.  We have learned that not only are planets plentiful, but are found in relatively flat and circular orbits.  However, this knowledge of the architecture exoplanetary systems is only currently valid for cooler G, K and M-dwarf stars, which were the prime targets from the original Kepler Mission.  From the Kepler Q1-Q12 catalogue there are only 116 planet-candidate systems where the host star has an effective temperature greater than 6500 K.  From this already small sample, only 18 have 2 or more known transiting candidates.  In stars with temperatures hotter than ~6500 K the stellar envelope structure and evolution on the main sequence is dominated by radiative transfer, opposed to cooler stars where convection plays an important role.   Misalignments between the planets orbital plane and stellar spin axis have been predominately found for stars with radiative atmospheres, whereas stars with convective envelopes typically show close alignment.  This observation is likely linked to the coupling of convective atmospheres and tidal forces.  As such, we wish to use K2 to determine the occurrence rate and orbital properties of multi-planet systems around hot stars.

Methodology: The Kepler Mission was a planet finding machine!  Our team has extensive knowledge and experience with Kepler photometric data for both transit finding and analysis as well as performing asteroseismic analysis of stars with temperatures greater than 6500 K.  We have selected approximately 400 target stars that fit within our target population and will ask for long-cadence (30 min) observations.  One of the problems of searching for planets around hotter stars is that many are known to pulsate (e.g. dSct and gDor type).  Fortunately, the pulsations can be identified, fitted and removed from a photometric light curves to allow searches for planets to reach low-noise levels.  Our plan is to use detrended photometric data and apply asteroseismic tools to remove stellar phenomena that may affect the data and to then search for transiting planets.  We will then study the properties of the planet-candidates using transit-depths, transit-durations and impact parameter to estimate the eccentricity and mutual inclination distributions, we will also estimate our planet search completeness and compare our measured properties to the properties of planetary systems found around cooler stars.

Relevance to Kepler-GO Program: Using space-based astronomical observations of star fields with K2 we will search for and characterize new planets around hot stars. Our research has the potential to determine whether the properties of the host star, convective or radiative atmospheres, play a role in the formation and evolution of planetary systems.  We expect to apply for targets in future observing campaigns to make sure we find ample planetary systems around hot-stars to meet our research goals.