%R 2015k2.propGO10052
%T Variability Properties of Luminous Wind-Dominated Quasars
%A Richards, Gordon T; Kasliwal, Vishal Pramod; Vogeley, Michael S. 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 10 Guest Observer Proposal GO10052
%D 07/2015
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO10052
%B Active Galactic Nuclei are known to exhibit rapid, high-amplitude flux variability across the electromagnetic spectrum. Variability in the optical is observed at the 10% level in 99% of quasars. The cause of quasar variability is not known, but current theories suggest that the variations may be attributable to a combination of small-scale variations in the accretion disk viscosity that are triggered by localized dynamo processes, accretion disk instabilities, large scale fueling-rate variations, and complex oscillations of the accretion disk. Optical variability may be driven by X-ray variability which itself may be generated by flares in the accretion disk. Physical mechanisms for variability introduce causal correlation into the light curves of quasars i.e. it may be possible to probe the physical drivers of quasar variability by studying the correlation structure of their light curves.

One of the challenges in understanding the physics of quasar variability is that, while one can compute an average quasar spectral energy distribution, there is no "standard" quasar.  The diversity of quasars is seen not only in the range of their radio and X-ray properties, but also in their UV emission lines.  Exploring that diversity is the focus of this work and requires stacking analysis of a large number of faint, but luminous quasars at relatively high redshifts.

This diversity of UV emission-line properties in quasars can be characterized as considering broad emission line flux as having two origins with different relative contributions in each quasar: 1) a virialized component, and 2) a non-virial component, likely from radiatively-driven accretion-disk winds (Leighly 2004; Richards et al. 2011).  A key facet of such two-component models is that more luminous quasars are more likely to have a strong wind component (Murray et al. 1995; Proga 2000, 2003; Everett 2005).  This can be seen empirically in the emission line properties of quasars. 

Using these diagnostics, our group has recently demonstrated a bias in variability-based black hole mass estimates.  Black hole (BH) masses estimated from single-epoch spectroscopy underlie our understanding of the build-up of BHs from high redshift to the present, but are currently based on a small sample of low-L, low-z "reverberation mapped" (RM) AGNs (e.g., Kaspi et al. 2000; Vestergaard & Peterson 2006). We found that the existing sample of RM AGNs appears to be biased against quasars where a radiation line driven disk-wind dominates the broad emission line region (BELR).  Similar biases are expected to exist in the current Kepler/K2 sample.

Without a better understanding of differences in quasar variability across the diversity of quasar emission line properties, we will not be able to fully understand the physics of quasar variability.  To address this problem, we propose to observe 975 known (and candidate) luminous quasars with a mean redshift of z~1.5 -- such objects are far more likely to host winds than the typical AGNs studied by Kepler/K2 to date.  Stacking analysis of the quasars as a function of their known intrinsic properties will allow us to overcome the relatively short timescale of the K2 observing campaigns and will enable us to distinguish differences in the variability of quasars with and without strong winds.	Crucially 166 of our targets are in the so-called SDSS Stripe 82 area and already have up to 100 epochs of data over the course of 8 years.  The combination of these data with new K2 data would be an incredibly powerful tool for AGN variability analysis.