%R 2016k2.propGO13016
%T Zodiacal Exoplanets in Time (ZEIT): A Prelude to Planets in the Taurus Molecular Cloud
%A Gaidos, Eric; Ansdell, Megan; Guedel, Manuel; Williams, Jonathan; Grunblatt, Samuel K; Kennedy, Grant; Mann, Andrew Withycombe; Wyatt, Mark C 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 13 Guest Observer Proposal GO13016
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO13016
%B Observations of very young (T Tauri stage, <~10 Myr) stars in star-forming regions and stellar clusters are a window into the process by which circumstellar disks of gas and dust evolve into planetary systems like the Solar System and the thousands detected by the Kepler mission.  However, many steps in this transformation are obscure and we especially need information at the scale of <~1 AU, where we know most about the planet population, but which is unresolved even by the ALMA interferometric array.  Precision time-domain photometry by space-based missions such as K2 over intervals corresponding to the orbital periods at these scales (hours to months) is an alternative approach.  Photometric variability of T Tauri stars is thought to be related to changes in disk accretion, magnetic activity or obscuration of the central star by dusty structures in the inner disk.  Continuous monitoring of the Orion Nebula, rho Ophiucus, and Upper Scorpius star-forming regions by CoRoT, Spitzer, and K2 have revealed a new class of variability; episodic and aperiodic drops or "dips" in flux of up to 30-40%  lasting hours to days.  The exact mechanism(s) behind these events is unknown but the depth, shape, and aperiodicity of these events are inconsistent with planetary transits.  Instead, dips seem related to the presence of a disk:  all K2-detected dipper stars in the rho Oph and Upper Sco clusters have infrared emission indicative of a disk, and the depth of dips is correlated with the emission from the inner disk.  Possible explanations include warps in the disk from stable accretion columns, vortices produced by a Rossby wave instability, planetesimal "clumps", or massive comet-like objects.  The relation of this phenomenon to an early stage of planet formation can be investigated through statistical studies of dipper populations in star-forming regions of different ages as well as the relationships between the properties of the dips and those of the disk or central star.  We propose long-cadence K2 observations in Campaign 13 of young stars in the Taurus Molecular Cloud (1-3 Myr) to identify dipper stars.   Taurus will fill in an evolutionary sequence from the Orion Nebula (<~1 Myr) to Upper Sco (~10 Myr) and is at the low stellar density end of the spectrum of star-forming environments.  Our target catalog is a a composite of infrared- (WISE/Spitzer), near UV- (GALEX) and X-ray-selected (ROSAT/XMM-Newton) Taurus members, checked for proper motions that are consistent with the TMC, and all brighter than 19th magnitude.  We will generate K2 lightcurves from the pixel-level data, correct for systematics, identify and remove rotational and other long-term variability and apply an algorithm to detect dips.  We will establish the occurrence of dippers and compare theses to the rates determined for other star-forming regions.  We will obtain visible and near-infrared spectra of dipper stars to characterize the central star.  We will obtain adaptive optics imaging and high-resolution near-infrared spectra to identify any stellar companions.  We will identify any spectroscopic signatures of accretion from a gaseous disk and measure the flux at submillimeter wavelengths to estimate disk dust masses.  Our study will address three questions that are key to understanding the dipper phenomenon: (1) Do dips represent a universal process among young stars regardless of environment, e.g. lower stellar densities than in other regions such as the Orion Nebula Cluster? (2) Does the correlation between dip depth and infrared excess hold for TMC members? (3) Is there any connection between disk accretion and dips?  K2 observations and ground-based follow-up will provide new and complementary information that improves our understanding of the evolution of protoplanetary disks, one of which spawned our world, a process which presumably also governs the occurrence and distribution of habitable planets and thus life elsewhere in the Cosmos.