%R 2016k2.propGO14004
%T Giants Orbiting Giants: A Search for Transiting Planets around Oscillating Evolved Stars with K2
%A Huber, Daniel; Howard, Andrew William; Gaidos, Eric; Chaplin, William J; Grunblatt, Samuel K; Fortney, Jonathan J; Mann, Andrew Withycombe; Lopez, Eric David 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 14 Guest Observer Proposal GO14004
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO14004
%B While most exoplanet transit surveys are focused on cool dwarfs, transiting planets orbiting evolved stars are largely unexplored. Due to their diversity in fundamental properties (e.g. stellar masses), low-luminosity red-giant branch (LLRGB) stars are ideal targets to tackle two key unsolved questions in exoplanet science: the occurrence rate of gas-giant planets as a function of host star mass and evolutionary state, and the role of stellar incident flux on the radius inflation of gas-giant planets. Our K2 program has already discovered the first potentially re-inflated Jupiter around an oscillating evolved star (Grunblatt et al. 2016), and preliminary results indicate an sharp transition in planet occurrence as a function of stellar evolution state. Here we propose to continue our survey in C14-C16 to detect additional planets needed to confirm these intriguing results.

We selected targets using Hipparcos and Gaia parallaxes, as well as spectroscopic surveys such as APOGEE, RAVE and LAMOST. The availability of Gaia parallaxes and the extensive coverage by LAMOST and RAVE will yield a significantly higher yield of bona-fide LLRGBs than in previous campaigns, making C14-C16 a particularly valuable sample to achieve our science goals. Planet candidates will be detected with K2 long-cadence data using a Box-Fitting Least Squares (BLS) algorithm coupled with a correlated noise model to account for stellar granulation. Since LLRGB stars oscillate with periods accessible with long-cadence data, we will use asteroseismology to precisely characterize both the host stars and the detected planet candidates. Follow-up high-precision radial velocity observations using Keck/HIRES and APF will be used to confirm the planets.

The proposal addresses two main K2 science goals: exoplanet detection and stellar astrophysics. Due to the low number of K2 short-cadence slots, our survey is the only K2 program allowing a systematic combination of asteroseismology and transits to characterize exoplanets. Kepler was not optimized towards observing LLRGB stars, and hence new K2 observations are required to address the key science questions of this project.