%R 2016k2.propGO16039
%T A search for exoplanets and close stellar/substellar companions in the local halo population for K2 campaigns 14-15-16.
%A Lepine, Sebastien; Jao, Wei-Chun 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 16 Guest Observer Proposal GO16039
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO16039
%B We propose to continue the systematic search for exoplanets orbiting the very old stars of the Galactic halo, a population of stars that was not targeted to any significant degree in the original Kepler mission, but which we have now been systematically targeting starting in K2 campaign 4. Following the recent discovery of exoplanets orbiting Kapteyn's star, a known local halo M subdwarf, and the determination of a very old age (~10Gyr) for the exoplanet bearing star Kepler-10, it is now suspected that stars of the Galactic halo population also harbor exoplanets in significant numbers. However, very little is known about the prevalence and properties of exoplanets orbiting old metal-poor stars because this population has been largely overlooked by most exoplanet surveys. In addition, the detection of eclipsing stellar companions is of high interest for stellar astrophysics, because it allows one to directly measure the mass and radius of a star, which in turn calibrates the fundamental "mass-radius relationship", which is a critical test of stellar structure and evolution models. We expect our proposed program to discover several of these important mass-radius calibrators, which would for the first time obtain mass and radius measurements for old, low-mass stars with low metal abundances. Our ongoing program has now identified three likely eclipsing binaries in K2 campaigns 4-7, out of 6,376 halo stars monitored. The small numbers shows how rare these systems are in the halo population, and emphasizes the need for monitoring larger samples of halo stars. Campaigns 14-15-16 are very favorable to this, with campaign 14 close to the North Galactic cap. Our astrometric and photometric analysis of these three fields identifies 3,959 high-velocity subdwarfs, which are unambiguous members of the local Galactic halo. We propose to monitor these halo stars with Kepler, in order to attempt once more to identify and characterize the first generations of exoplanets in our Galaxy, and to identify additional eclipsing systems to be used as mass-radius calibrators. Light curves of the targeted halo stars will be searched for eclipses or transits using an auto-correlation and Fourier analysis method developed by our team. Candidates will be targeted for ground-based follow-up observations, to confirm the existence of the transits/eclipses. Relevance: this program will directly expand on the original goal of Kepler to find exoplanets orbiting main sequence stars in the Galactic disk. The data collected on local Galactic halo stars will complement existing result from the Kepler mission by providing statistics and/or properties of exoplanets orbiting old, metal-poor stars.