%R 2016k2.propGO14058
%T The K2 RR Lyrae and Cepheid survey
%A Szabo, Robert; Smolec, Radoslaw; Kolenberg, Katrien; Molnar, Laszlo; Plachy, Emese 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 14 Guest Observer Proposal GO14058
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO14058
%B Cepheids and RR Lyrae stars play a crucial role in astrophysics as standard candles, tracers of galactic history, and touchstones for modeling stellar pulsations. Space data of these objects have led to a giant leap forward in our understanding of their structure and evolution through the discovery of new dynamical phenomena. Moreover, insight into these stars dynamics is of utmost importance to advance our knowledge of galaxy formation and evolution in the Local Group of galaxies and beyond. Throughout the K2 Mission we have been building a unique database of high precision RR Lyrae light curves from field to field, covering different parts of our Galaxy, and beyond. In this proposal we plan to study ~650 RR Lyrae stars in Fields 14-15-16. Our strategy assures that galactic structure studies and statistical analysis of pulsation properties (double-mode pulsation, Blazhko modulation, period doubling, low-dimensional chaos, non-radial modes) based on K2 data will be possible. Besides the ensemble studies, the analysis of individual stars will be equally interesting and important. For example, low-amplitude additional modes have been observed in all RR Lyrae subtypes, but their origins and occurrence rates are still largely unknown. We plan to complete our K2 Cepheid sample with a few Type II Cepheids in Field 15.  Targets. Approximately 650 RR Lyrae stars will be proposed (3-4 stars per field for short cadence observations) in the three fields, and 5 Type II Cepheids in Field 15. Field 14, towards the North Galactic Cap, contains 147 RR Lyrae stars, 11 RRd and 30 RRc stars among them. Field 15 has close to 400 RR Lyrae (5 RRd and 36 RRc) and 5 Type II Cepheids (2 BL Her, 2 W Vir and 1 RV Tau type). Finally, Field 16 offers 105 RR Lyrae targets (3 RRd, 22 RRc). Fields 14 & 16 do not have good Cepheid candidates. We will benefit from the overlap with previous fields (C5/C16 has 23, while C2/C15 has 2 common RR Lyrae targets); luckily both overlaps contain priority short-cadence RRc stars. Re-observation of these targets present a unique opportunity to assess our earlier findings that were based on previous K2 observations, and allows us to look at any longer term changes to our targets, such as Blazhko modulation, and the stability of additional modes.
 
Methods and community resources. Photometry of large-amplitude pulsators requires special treatment, and general-purpose pipelines may provide RR Lyrae light curves with sub-optimal quality. Therefore, we developed a specific algorithm (Extended Aperture Photometry, EAP) to deal with these difficulties. As a value-added community resource we publish a searchable database containing the light curves, frequency solutions and other parameters (Blazhko periods, additional modes, etc.) of the RR Lyrae and Cepheid stars observed by K2. Standard time-frequency analysis (by e.g. Period04) and study of time-dependent features are envisaged. Metallicities will be derived from empirical relations calibrated with high-resolution spectra. State-of-the-art numerical hydrocodes (Florida-Budapest, Warsaw) will be used to interpret the results. Synthetic galactic models (TRILEGAL) will be used to compare the galactic location and number of the observed sample with simulations.

Experience of team members. Our team consists of members of the Working Group#7 (RR Lyrae and Cepheids) of the Kepler Asteroseismic Science Consortium, who have been working on Kepler data (also preparation and target selection) since the launch of the original mission. Our scientists are experts on data reduction, pixel photometry, light curve and time-frequency analysis, as well as theorists performing numerical hydrodynamical modeling. We routinely analyze Kepler and K2 data, and published 20 Kepler/K2 RR Lyrae and Cepheid papers in high-impact journals. The group has access to ground-based follow-up (multi-color photometric and spectroscopic) instruments in Taiwan, Korea, USA, Canada and Hungary.