%R 2016k2.propGO13073
%T Tilted Terrestrial Planets around Tiny Twirling Stars: Characterizing Activity, Rotation, and Exoplanet Orbits for M Dwarfs Young and Old.
%A Mahadevan, Suvrath; Roy, Arpita; Robertson, Paul M; Terrien, Ryan 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 13 Guest Observer Proposal GO13073
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO13073
%B We propose to obtain photometric observations of young M dwarfs observed by K2, complemented with spectroscopic observations using the HET/HRS, HPF, and other optical spectrographs to characterize and better understand stellar magnetic activity, determine stellar inclinations, and confirm transiting exoplanet candidates.

K2 will observe a significant number of young M dwarfs in Cycle 4, particularly in Campaign 13, which includes the Hyades cluster.  This presents a unique opportunity to characterize the rotation and magnetic properties of young M stars, as well as the orbital properties of their planetary systems.  At an estimated age of 625 million years, the M dwarfs in the Hyades cluster should be rotating rapidly enough that the K2 observational baseline should cover more than one full stellar rotation period, allowing for robust determination of the rotation rates of these stars.  Given the ubiquity of low-mass planets in short-period orbits around M stars from the original Kepler mission, it should also be expected that K2 observations of Hyades M dwarfs will reveal a population of exoplanets that would be difficult to discover with radial velocity (RV) due to the stars rapid rotation and strong magnetic activity.

We intend to use K2 to monitor a set of ~200 young M dwarfs in the northern hemisphere, and as necessary obtain high-cadence spectroscopy of these stars using HPF (a near-infrared spectrometer) and the upgraded HET/HRS spectrograph. We expect to accomplish three primary scientific objectives:

1)  We will explore the disparate effects of stellar magnetic activity on photometric and spectroscopic observations, and their physical origins.  Previous studies of low-mass stars suggest that spectroscopy and photometry can display markedly different aspects of a stars activity.  One particularly interesting such example is the planet-host M dwarf GJ 176, which we propose to observe with K2 in Campaign 13.  Robertson et al. (2015) showed that the star exhibits a photometric rotation signal that stays in phase over many years, but the spectral rotation signal (as observed by activity-sensitive line cores and RV) goes out of phase after a single observing season.  The broad spectral coverage afforded by HRS and HPF will allow us to explore these effects across the entire visible-NIR waveband.

2)  We will use HPF, our new near-infrared, high-precision RV spectrograph to perform RV follow-up observations and confirm transiting exoplanet candidates around M dwarfs identified in the K2 lightcurves, greatly ameliorating activity induced noise in the optical with infrared observations with sufficient precision to confirm planets.

3)  We will use the upgraded HRS spectrograph on HET in its highest resolution mode (R~120k) to obtain vsini measurements of the M dwarfs targeted by K2.  Together with the rotation periods determined from the K2 lightcurves, we will provide estimates of stellar inclinations.  This is especially valuable for the stars around which exoplanets are identified, as it will give estimates of the spin-orbit angles of the planets.  Spin-orbit angles have never been measured for any M dwarf planets, so this result would be the first of its kind.  Furthermore, spin-orbit measurements for cool, young stars may place constraints on models explaining the origins of spin-orbit misalignments.  If, for example, we find that planets around young, early M stars (i.e. those stars with radiative interiors and a convective shell) are misaligned with the stellar spin axis, it would lend credence to the theory that misaligned planets may torque their stars convective shells into alignment over time.