%R 2016k2.propGO12080
%T The K2 Ultra-Distant Red Giant Program
%A Peterson, Ruth; Sharma, Sanjib; Stello, Dennis; Guhathakurta, Puragra 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 12 Guest Observer Proposal GO12080
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO12080
%B Goals. Galactic halo stellar populations provide strong constraints on star formation at the earliest epochs, and the assembly and the mass of the halo itself. The best halo tracers are K giants, for they occur in populations of all metallicities and ages, and at their high luminosities they remain visible to 100 kpc. The coolest, brightest giants probe the greatest distances, but they are very rare, and difficult to distinguish from intervening dwarfs. Spectroscopic confirmation, for example by SEGUE and LAMOST, has tried to improve the ~3% yield of giants in sparse halo fields by targeting warm red giants of low metallicity. Consequently very few cool luminous halo giants at distances > 50 kpc are known in the Milky Way, although many have been uncovered in the halo of the Andromeda galaxy (Gilbert et al. 2014).

Here we are undertaking to identify distant Milky Way giants from Kepler 2 long-cadence light curves. Unlike multi-object spectroscopy, Kepler 2 can observe a thousand halo stars at once. The comprehensive sky coverage of SDSS photometry in the K2 halo field C12 allows us to add 804 faint red giant targets with temperatures < 4600K to the ~1800 warm and cool K giant targets we have targeted in the K2 halo fields C6, C8, and C10. The target selection adopted here does introduce a metallicity bias, but in the opposite sense of the biases of previous halo giant surveys. Separately we are proposing a search for primarily warmer giants in a limited area of C12 with more accurate SDSS photometry, which enables a target selection with minimal bias in metallicity.

The overall goal of these proposals is to identify and characterize a significant sample of giants in the outer Galactic halo, beyond 35 kpc. Our K2 remote halo work extends to fainter magnitudes, and thus greater distances, than the work of the Galactic Archaeology Program to characterize the inner Galactic halo. Being dependent on noisier light curves, our work sacrifices full characterization of the asteroseismology parameters for a simple derivation of dwarf/giant status and of log g, and relies on SDSS photometry for temperature determinations. Since luminosity is metallicity-dependent in old giants, this also provides a metallicity estimate.

Methods. The proposed targets fall in a region in the ugri color-color diagrams predominantly occupied by giants. This is confirmed by comparing their colors to those of Castelli & Kurucz (2003) model photospheres, whose reliability is verified from stars already known to be giants or dwarfs. Our targets have 0.9 < (g-r)o < 1.35 and 16 < Kp < 18.4, too faint for APOGEE, Gaia, or GALAH. Keck/DEIMOS follow-up spectroscopy, covering 6450  9150 Å at 1.2 Å resolution (R ~ 6500), is anticipated for a dozen giants, during twilight hours in time granted for the faint giants of Andromeda (Gilbert et al. 2014).

Unlike dwarfs, light curves of luminous giants have a strong p-mode and granulation signal at low frequencies (e.g. Stello et al. 2014). These can be detected to Kp ~ 18.5, for which a giant with Mr = 2 is over 100 kpc distant. We have demonstrated this by measuring p-mode peaks in the power spectra of in Kepler light curves of low-metallicity APOKASC giants, breaking them into quarters and adding noise at various levels. The approach of Kallinger et al. (2016), who derive log g from the time scale of granulation and p-mode oscillations combined, is also very well suited to these faint but luminous giants, as they show.

Relevance. The original Kepler field is at low Galactic latitude, b = +13.5º, with significant and variable reddening; halo stars are swamped by less luminous stars of the disk and thick disk populations. In contrast, the C12 targets are at b = 60º, with low reddening and a sightline that runs past the Galactic thick disk into its halo. C6, C8, and C10 are at similarly high latitudes. The K2 high-latitude fields C1 and C3 contained very few suitable faint stellar targets.