%R 2016k2.propGO12079
%T The K2 Remote Halo Project: Probing the Metallicity Distribution of Red Giants
%A Peterson, Ruth; Sharma, Sanjib; Stello, Dennis; Guhathakurta, Puragra 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 12 Guest Observer Proposal GO12079
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO12079
%B Goals. Galactic halo stellar populations provide strong constraints on star formation at the earliest epochs, and the assembly and the mass of the halo itself. The best halo tracers are K giants, for they occur in populations of all metallicities and ages, and at their high luminosities they remain visible to 100 kpc. The main obstacle is in distinguishing remote halo giants from intervening dwarfs. Spectroscopic confirmation, for example by SEGUE and LAMOST, has tried to improve the ~3% yield of giants in sparse halo fields by targeting warm red giants of low metallicity. Consequently, the underlying halo profile and metallicity distribution cannot be directly extracted from the known giant sample (Xue et al. 2014).

Here we propose to minimize this metallicity bias by distinguishing dozens of remote giants solely from Kepler 2 long-cadence light curves. Unlike multi-object spectroscopy, Kepler 2 can observe a thousand halo stars at once. This work adds ~813 faint potential red K giant targets in C12 with temperatures < 4800K, and a minimal metallicity bias, to the several hundred such targets we have already obtained in the K2 halo field C8. This should yield an unbiased sample of ~40 giants > 35 kpc. Separately we are proposing a wider search in C12 for the coolest, most luminous giants only, which should add the most distant giants at the expense of reintroducing a metallicity bias.

Our overall goal is to identify and characterize a significant sample of giants in the outer Galactic halo, beyond 35 kpc. These combined efforts extend to fainter magnitudes, as thus greater distances, the work of the Galactic Archaeology Program to characterize the inner Galactic halo. Being dependent on noisier light curves, this work sacrifices complete characterization of the asteroseismology parameters for a simple derivation of dwarf/giant status and of log g, and relies on SDSS photometry for temperature determinations. Since luminosity is metallicity-dependent in old giants, this assessment of luminosity also provides an estimate of metallicity.

Methods. Our approach here in C12 (as for  in C8) selects targets likely to be giants from the accurate ugr colors of stars in SDSS Stripe 82 (Bhatti et al. 2010). These are compared to Castelli & Kurucz (2003) model photospheres, whose reliability is verified from stars already known to be giants or dwarfs. We remove most stars with photometry more consistent with dwarfs than giants, but retain potential giants of all metallicities. Our main targets have 0.8 < (g-r)o < 1.35 and 16.2 < Kp < 18.5, too faint for APOGEE, Gaia, or GALAH. Keck/DEIMOS follow-up spectroscopy, covering 6450  9150 Å at 1.2 Å resolution (R ~ 6500), is anticipated for a dozen giants, during twilight hours in time granted for the faint giants of Andromeda (Gilbert et al. 2014).

Unlike dwarfs, light curves of luminous giants have a strong p-mode and granulation signal at low frequencies (e.g. Stello et al. 2014). These can be detected to Kp ~ 18.5, for which a giant with Mr = 2 is over 100 kpc distant. We have demonstrated this by measuring p-mode peaks in the power spectra of in Kepler light curves of low-metallicity APOKASC giants, breaking them into quarters and adding noise at various levels. The approach of Kallinger et al. (2016), who derive log g from the time scale of granulation and p-mode oscillations combined, is also very well suited to these faint but luminous giants, as they show.

Relevance. The original Kepler field is at low Galactic latitude, b = +13.5º, with significant and variable reddening; halo stars are swamped by less luminous stars of the disk and thick disk populations. In contrast, the C8 and C12 targets are at |b| ~ 60º, with low reddening and sightlines that run past the Galactic thick disk and well into its halo. The K2 high-latitude fields C1, C3, and C6 contained very few suitable faint K stellar targets.