%R 2016k2.propGO13064
%T How the Other Half Lives: Completing the K2 Census of Low-Mass Hyads
%A Agueros, Marcel; Covey, Kevin; Cargile, Phillip A; Douglas, Stephanie T 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 13 Guest Observer Proposal GO13064
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO13064
%B Although it has been known for decades that rotation and magnetic activity in main-sequence stars decrease with age, a quantitative description of the age-rotation-activity relation (ARAR) still eludes us. Empirical calibrations of the ARAR rely on observations of the co-eval populations of stars in open clusters: the well-defined ages of these stars make them valuable targets for measuring rotation periods and proxies for magnetic field strength, such as H-alpha and X-ray luminosities.

The Hyades offers the greatest opportunity for understanding the underlying ARAR physics for low-mass stars, for which this relation remains particularly uncertain. The ~600 Myr-old cluster is the closest open cluster to the Sun; at 47 pc, even the faintest cluster members are accessible targets for activity observations. The cluster members are widely spread out on the sky, however, which makes ground-based period measurements of the faintest Hyads prohibitive. By contrast, with its wide field of view and high photometric precision, K2 has already allowed us to obtain periods for Hyads as small as ~0.1 Msun. In Douglas et al. (2016), we measured rotation periods for 48 of 65 Hyads observed in C4, obtaining the first periods for fully convective Hyads. We found that removing confirmed binaries has a significant impact on the morphology of the mass-period plane, and that magnetic braking may behave differently in early M dwarfs and in higher-mass stars. We require more rotation measurements in the Hyades to confirm these effects and examine them in more detail.  

In addition to characterizing the evolution of stellar angular momentum, our interest lies in exploring the link between rotation and magnetic activity. We are collecting new and archival optical spectra and X-ray detections for low-mass members of nearby open clusters. In Douglas et al. (2014), we used rotation and activity data for Hyades and Praesepe members to find that H-alpha activity and X-ray activity decline differently with slower rotation. This supports the theory that X-ray activity saturates for the fastest rotators. However, the different mass distributions of stars with H-alpha and X-ray measurements make that support tentative at best. We require a large sample of stars with period and chromospheric and coronal activity measurements to more definitively test magnetic dynamo and field structure theories.

We propose to obtain K2 light curves for 150 Hyades members in C13, including >80 M dwarfs. Our K2 survey will build on our large-scale effort to map out rotation periods in low-mass stars in several open clusters. C13 provides an extraordinary opportunity to complete the sample of rotation periods for Hyades stars, providing access to longer, lower-amplitude signals than can currently be measured from the ground. 

We will use our period-measurement routines, developed to analyze C4 and C5 data, to search each C13 light curve for signatures of stellar rotation. In parallel, we will continue our spectroscopic and X-ray survey of the Hyades, relying primarily on the 2.4-m Hiltner telescope at MDM Observatory, AZ. Columbia University owns a 25% share of MDM, and we have obtained long-term status for spectroscopic work related to this survey. We have also received time on XMM and Swift to carry out snapshot X-ray surveys of low-mass Hyads. We will combine each star's period measurement with diagnostics of chromospheric and coronal activity to examine the dependence of magnetic activity on rotation, thereby also providing firmer constraints on the magnetic environment around low-mass stars. 

The Hyades is a benchmark cluster for the ARAR, which can be used to measure the ages of exoplanet host stars. This proposal therefore supports NASA's goal of understanding exoplanetary systems.