%R 2016k2.propGO14021
%T Small Planets from GK Dwarfs in K2 Fields 14-16
%A Howard, Andrew William; Petigura, Erik; Schlieder, Joshua E; Ciardi, David R; Crossfield, Ian JM; Sinukoff, Evan 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 14 Guest Observer Proposal GO14021
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO14021
%B Our team is searching for transiting planets orbiting FGK dwarf stars in all of the K2 fields.  We will construct catalogs of transiting planets in the magnitude-limited samples of K2 fields.  These catalogs enable diverse follow-up observations and analyses by our team and others. We will discover small planets suitable for high-precision Doppler spectroscopy with Keck-HIRES and other instruments.  Measuring the planets masses will significantly refine our knowledge of the variation of planet density, composition, and atmospheric extent with planet size.  Our K2 samples will also be useful for planet occurrence measurements to detect variations in the prevalence of planets as a function of sky position, sampling different star formation environments and stellar densities. We will learn whether our detailed occurrence measurements from the prime Kepler Mission (Howard et al. 2012, Petigura et al. 2013, Sanchis-Ojeda et al. 2014) can be applied directly to the solar neighborhood.  This Cycle 5 request for Campaigns 14, 15, 16 is similar to our previous K2 Guest Observer proposals in Campaigns 0-13 (PIs Howard, Sanchis-Ojeda, Petigura, and Winn) that constitute the primary sample of the bright FGK dwarf stars observed by K2.  We select stars from the provisional TESS Dwarf Star Catalog (TDC), which combines 2MASS, Tycho-2, UCAC4, and other catalogs.  Giant stars were cleansed using reduced proper motion cuts.  Here we request magnitude-limited samples of Fields 14-16 comprising approximately 10,000 stars each in long-cadence mode.  We will continue our search for transit signals in the K2 photometry using the well-vetted TERRA pipeline (Petigura & Marcy 2012, Petigura et al. 2013).  We catalog the planets discovered, their orbital and physical properties, and their host star characteristics, as in the recent catalog by our team (Crossfield et al. 2016) that found 197 planet candidates and 104 validated planets in K2 Campaigns 0-4.

We will identify the planets most amenable to Doppler mass measurements and observe them using Keck-HIRES, the Automated Planet Finder at Lick Observatory, and other facilities.  We were awarded a NASA-Keck Key Project specifically to measure K2 planet masses using 40 nights on Keck-HIRES. These mass measurements will focus on detectable small planets -- short-period super-Earths and Neptunes and ultra-short-period Earths.  Our team demonstrated technical expertise in all of the above areas during the prime Kepler mission.

Relevance:
This proposal directly addresses two objectives from the prime Kepler mission: measuring planet occurrence rates and characterizing small planets with Doppler mass measurements.