%R 2016k2.propGO13019
%T Statistics of Variability in Main-Sequence Stars of Kepler 2 Fields 11, 12 and 13
%A Guzik, Joyce Ann; Molnar, Laszlo; Jackiewicz, Jason; Handler, Gerald; Nelson, Nicholas; Kosak, Katie; Mathur, Savita; Buzasi, Derek L; Kinemuchi, Karen; Ngeow, Chow-Choong; Murphy, Simon James; Gaulme, Patrick; Pigulski, Andrzej; Szabo, Robert; Garcia Hernandez, Antonio 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 13 Guest Observer Proposal GO13019
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO13019
%B We propose to observe with the Kepler spacecraft in long-cadence mode about 3500 stars in each of Fields 11, 12, and 13. Our goals are to discover pulsating variable stars, as well as eclipsing binaries and magnetically active stars with variability produced by rotating spots or flares, and develop statistics on the occurrence of variability.  This proposal complements observations taken for our previous K2 GO Cycle 1, 2, and 3 proposals, as each K2 field samples different stellar populations in the Galactic disk, halo, spiral arms, and young clusters near the ecliptic plane.  We use B-V and J-K colors and magnitudes in the EPIC catalog to select main-sequence stars with Kepler magnitudes between 6 and 16.  The Kepler signal-to-noise level is high enough to identify variability in even the faintest proposed targets, and many of these stars will be bright enough for ground-based follow-up observations, including high-resolution spectroscopic observations for pulsation mode identification.  The survey will also be useful to identify promising targets for current or future space-based observations by, e.g., TESS, PLATO, or BRITE.

Observations by the Kepler spacecraft have turned out to be ideal for discovery and characterization of main-sequence stars pulsating in radial and nonradial pressure and gravity modes. The long time series and high precision of the photometry have enabled determination of frequencies of modes with periods of order a day (g modes) to a few hours (p and mixed modes), and amplitudes as low as tens of parts per million using long-cadence data (30-min integrations per data point). Analysis of the Kepler data has raised a number of questions about the possible pulsation driving mechanisms for gamma Doradus g-mode and delta Scuti p-mode pulsations, and revealed an unexpectedly large number of hybrid star candidates that show pulsations in both types of modes. The Kepler data have also been used to study slowly pulsating B (SPB) stars (g-mode pulsators), beta Cephei stars (p-mode pulsators) and their hybrids to test stellar pulsation theory in the presumably simpler case for these hotter stars with smaller inefficient envelope convection zones. The analysis has also revealed a number of apparently non-pulsating stars that lie within the pulsation instability regions established by theory that need to be explained. We expect to increase the numbers of these types of stars available for detailed study, especially for candidates brighter than those found in the original Kepler field. We also expect to discover additional eclipsing binaries and magnetically active stars. 

Our sample selection is not biased toward known pulsators, and includes enough stars to derive statistics on the occurrence of variability.  We will compare our results with similar surveys of stars in the original Kepler Cygnus-Lyra field as well as K2 Fields 6, 8, and 10, and with surveys of stars in open clusters for K2 Fields 0, 4, 5, and 7.  We will also extend the time series of observations for some Hyades cluster stars observed in the K2 Field 4 that are also observable in Field 13.  We will produce a catalog of the candidate variables, eclipsing binaries, and magnetically active stars that we find.

Although we are proposing to observe several thousand targets (large proposal), our budget request will be $50K (small-proposal limit) for the PI to oversee the project, prepare the catalog, and present results in journal papers and at conferences.