%R 2016k2.propGO11018
%T The K2 M Dwarf Project: Campaigns 11-13
%A Crossfield, Ian JM; Ciardi, David R; Howard, Andrew William; Schlieder, Joshua E; Petigura, Erik; Dressing, Courtney D; Lepine, Sebastien; Christiansen, Jessie L 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 11 Guest Observer Proposal GO11018
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO11018
%B The K2 M Dwarf Project: Campaigns 1113 Targets

Low-mass M dwarfs provide the highest probability of detecting small (<0.5  4 R_E) transiting
planets by virtue of the large transit depths seen for such small stars. These deep transits also
increase the potential for subsequent atmospheric characterization. The extended Kepler K2 mission
provides the opportunity to monitor tens-of-thousands of nearby, ecliptic M dwarfs with precise,
long-cadence photometry and discover a new population of rocky and potentially habitable planets
and larger sub-Neptunes that are amenable to transit spectroscopy. We propose to observe several
thousand additional M dwarfs in the K2 campaigns 1113 fields (as verified by K2fov) to continue our
successful K2 program that we call the K2 M Dwarf Project (K2-MDP). We estimate dozens to
hundreds of small planets around late-type stars from the full K2-MDP program. This
new population of planets will drastically increase the number of known M dwarf planetary systems,
improve planet frequency statistics, inform theories of planet formation, evolution, interiors, and
atmospheres, and provide new targets for follow-up with current and future observatories.

Our M dwarf targets are selected from the SUPERBLINK proper-motion database on the basis of
high proper-motion and photometric colors. This selection method captures the majority of M dwarfs
within 100pc of the Sun from this deep (95% complete to V =19) catalog with little contamination.
Our targets have median brightness Kp<16, most are M3-M4 dwarfs, and > 95% are in EPIC.
We prioritize our targets using expected transit S/N, determined by comparing K2s photometric
precision to predicted transit depth for a nominal, transiting super-Earth. We estimate transit
depths by converting DSS, PanSTARRS 1, 2MASS, and WISE photometry to spectral type and
then to radius and temperature. Our team exploits knowledge gained from analysis of Kepler light
curves to search K2 pixel data for planet transit signals. Spectroscopic observations of candidate
planet hosts will provide fundamental parameters such as temperature, metallicity, surface gravity,
and age. Where feasible, new systems will be proposed as targets for radial velocity monitoring
for full characterization. Our full program, from target selection, to planet discoveries, to host
characterization, aims to provide the largest and most reliable sample of small, transiting M dwarf
planets to date. The K2-MDP team has made steady progress toward these goals and
draws on considerable experience from Kepler. We have so far had successful target
proposals in all previous K2 fields, have been awarded large, multisemester programs
at ESO (for spectroscopic follow-up), Keck (for Radial Velocity masses), and Gemini
(for AO and speckle imaging).


Relevance

The proposed targets comprise a key portion of the K2-MDP program which aims
to exploit the strengths of the K2 mission design to reveal hundreds of small planets
around nearby M dwarfs. Discoveries of habitable zone, Earth-like planets and planets
suitable for atmospheric characterization are primary science drivers for K2 and primary goals of NASA. Our program will provide both the small, rocky planets and key transit
spectroscopy targets for early JWST Guaranteed Time Observations (GTO) leading up
to the GTO proposal deadline in late 2016; well before the launch of TESS.

Funded Team Membership

The PI, Ian Crossfield, will use the bulk of any funding to support a graduate
student. The funded Co-PIs will also receive smaller allocations to support travel for
observing.