%R 2016k2.propGO14084
%T The K2 Remote Halo Project: Probing the Metallicity Distribution of Red Giants
%A Peterson, Ruth; Stello, Dennis; Guhathakurta, Puragra; Sharma, Sanjib 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 14 Guest Observer Proposal GO14084
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO14084
%B Goals. Galactic halo stellar populations strongly constrain star formation at the earliest epochs, and the assembly and the mass of the halo. The best halo tracers are K giants, for they occur in populations of all metallicities and ages, and remain visible to 100 kpc. The main obstacle is in distinguishing remote halo giants from intervening dwarfs. Spectroscopic confirmation, for example by SEGUE and LAMOST, has tried to improve the ~3% yield of giants in sparse halo fields by targeting warm red giants of low metallicity. Consequently, the underlying halo profile and metallicity distribution cannot be directly extracted from the known giant sample (Xue et al. 2014). Our goal is to provide the true metallicity distribution of distant halo stars by reducing the metallicity bias in their selection.

We propose to distinguish dozens of remote giants solely from Kepler 2 long-cadence light curves. Unlike multi-object spectroscopy, Kepler 2 can observe a thousand halo stars at once. This C14 work adds 14 known giants and 901 faint cool red giant candidates with temperatures < 4600K, and a minimal metallicity bias, to the thousands of such targets we have already obtained in previous K2 halo campaign fields, beginning with C6. The C14 data are required to yield fifty or more giants > 35 kpc, necessary for a meaningful metallicity distribution. We will make public all derived parameters and provide a legacy of Kepler light curves for remote halo giants and thick disk dwarfs.

Our program extends to fainter magnitudes the work of the Galactic Archaeology Program on the inner Galactic halo. Due to noisier light curves, our work sacrifices asteroseismology parameters for a simple derivation of dwarf/giant status and of log g, and relies on SDSS photometry for temperature determinations. Since luminosity is metallicity-dependent in old giants, this assessment of luminosity also yields an estimate of metallicity.

Methods. Our approach in C14, as in previous halo campaigns, selects stars likely to be giants based on their ugr colors compared to those of Castelli & Kurucz (2003) model photospheres, as verified from known giants and dwarfs. We remove stars with photometry more consistent with dwarfs than giants, yielding giant targets with a much lower metallicity bias. To limit this bias and to remove M dwarfs, our targets have 0.90 < (g-r)o < 1.22. 853 have 15.0 < Kp < 18.5, too faint for APOGEE, GAIA, or GALAH. Keck/DEIMOS follow-up spectroscopy, covering 6450 - 9150A at 1.2A resolution (R ~ 6500), is anticipated for dozens of giants, during twilight hours in time granted to us for giants in very remote systems (e.g. Gilbert et al. 2014).

Unlike dwarfs, light curves of luminous giants have a strong p-mode and granulation signal at low frequencies (e.g. Stello et al. 2014). These can be detected to Kp ~ 18.5, for which a giant with Mr = -2 is over 100 kpc distant. We have demonstrated this by measuring p-mode peaks in the power spectra of Kepler light curves of low-metallicity APOKASC giants, breaking them into quarters and adding noise at various levels. Kallinger et al. (2016) derived log g from the time scale of granulation and p-mode oscillations combined, an approach also very well suited to these faint but luminous giants. The interloping stars are mid- to late-K dwarfs well above the Galactic plane, whose light curves can reveal close binaries and rapidly-rotating stars. A comparison of their binary and rotation frequency with that of Kepler thin disk K-dwarfs will constrain thick-disk formation.

Relevance. The original Kepler field is at low Galactic latitude, b = +13.5deg, with significant and variable reddening; halo giants are swamped by dwarfs of the thin disk. In contrast, C14 targets are at b = +53deg, as are our previous K2 targets, with low reddening and a sightline that runs past the Galactic thick disk into its halo. The K2 high-latitude fields C1 and C3 contained very few suitable faint stellar targets.