%R 2016k2.propGO12034
%T Lightcurves of 2060 Chiron and 176P to test models of small body rings, rotation, and activity
%A Womack, Maria; Ryan, Erin Lee; Samarasinha, Nalin Harsha; Wierzchos, Kacper Witold; Mueller, Beatrice E.A. 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 12 Guest Observer Proposal GO12034
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO12034
%B We will construct lightcurves for two small solar system bodies (2060 Chiron and 176P) that may tell us a great deal about distantly active comets  those which generate a coma too far from the Sun to be caused by water-ice sublimation. We will use the data to test models of thermal activity for both objects, models of jets and/or rings for Chiron, and models of impacts and devolatilization for 176P. Lightcurves obtained from the ground lack the sensitivity and continuous time coverage needed to test these models. Knowledge gained about distantly active comet nuclei are important to test models of how icy bodies sublimate and outgas, which has implications for NASA missions to outer solar system icy bodies.

Chiron is an unusual icy minor planet.  First identified as an asteroid,  its sporadic coma warranted a comet designation, and its orbit identifies it as a Centaur. Its brightness varies significantly on short and long timescales and a H2O-ice signature was detected, which also varies. The changes do not correlate well with heliocentric distance, and until recently were largely unexplained, other than those due to nucleus rotation of ~5.9 hours. Recently, strong evidence for a ring system or jets was discovered, which may account for the rest of the brightness variations. Rings may also explain the changes in the H2O-ice spectra, if the changes are due to changes in the aspect angle of Chiron, giving us a different view of the rings over time. The evidence is strong for rings; however, they are not confirmed. Also, rings would not explain the occasional outbursts and coma, which occur too far from the Sun to be caused by H2O ice sublimation, the driver of normal comets. Lightcurve data from K2 would help differentiate between models of jets and rings.

Main belt asteroid 118401 exhibited cometary activity in 2005 and was given the comet designation 176P.  Spectral analysis shows that 176P is of a different nature and origin than the rest of Kuiper belt or Oort Cloud comets. It has a ~5 year orbital period, and despite an extensive ground-based campaign, no coma was observed during the last perihelion, bringing up the possibility that the object is devolatilized.  Spectral analysis of 176P shows that this comet is of a different nature and origin than the rest of Kuiper belt or Oort Cloud comets and has a rotation period of 22.23 hour with substantial lightcurve variations of 0.7 magnitude, which may indicate a highly elongated shape. This object may belong to a third reservoir of comets (after Oort cloud and Kuiper belt), which could be an important source for Earths oceans.  During Campaign 12, 176P will be approaching perihelion on 2017 Mar 12. Thus, Campaign 12 is a great opportunity to observe any possible activity associated with its closest approach to the Sun. 

Observing both objects for ~80 days will significantly reduce uncertainties about their nature. We propose to use K2 to measure the lightcurves of Chiron and 176P to test the proposed ring and jet models for Chiron, measure the rotational period of 176P and document any activity from both. Ultimately, this project will contribute to our understanding of how icy bodies in our solar system become active at large heliocentric distances.