%R 2016k2.propGO14005
%T The K2 M Dwarf Project: Campaigns 14-16
%A Crossfield, Ian JM; Petigura, Erik; Christiansen, Jessie L; Howard, Andrew William; Dressing, Courtney D; Ciardi, David R 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 14 Guest Observer Proposal GO14005
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO14005
%B The extended Kepler K2 mission provides the opportunity to monitor tens-of-thousands of
nearby, ecliptic M dwarfs with precise, long-cadence photometry and to discover a new population 
of rocky and potentially habitable planets and larger sub-Neptunes that are amenable to transit
spectroscopy. We propose to observe several thousand additional M dwarfs in the K2 campaigns
1416 fields (as verified by K2fov) to continue our successful K2 program that we call the K2 M
Dwarf Project (K2-MDP). We estimate 100200 small planets around late-type stars from
the full K2-MDP program. This new population of planets will drastically increase the number
of known M dwarf planetary systems, improve planet frequency statistics, inform theories of planet
formation, evolution, interiors, and atmospheres, and provide new targets for follow-up with current
and future observatories.

Our M dwarf targets are selected on the basis of high proper-motion, photometric colors, and
supplemented with GAIA data where feasible. Our approach captures the majority of M dwarfs
within 100pc of the Sun with little contamination. Our targets have median brightness Kp<15,
most are M3-M4 dwarfs, and > 95% are in EPIC. We prioritize our targets using expected transit
S/N, determined by comparing K2s precision to predicted transit depth for a nominal, transiting
super-Earth. We estimate transit depths by converting multiband to spectral type and then to R
and T ef f . Our team exploits knowledge gained from analysis of Kepler light curves to search K2 pixel
data for planet transit signals. Spectroscopic observations of candidate planet hosts provide stellar
parameters. Our full program, from target selection, to planet discoveries, to host characterization,
aims to provide the largest and most reliable sample of small, transiting M dwarf planets to date.

The K2-MDP team has made steady progress toward all our goals. Our collaboration
has resulted in nine papers published to date, with ten currently submitted or in preparation. Our
largest results are a full C04 candidate and validated planet catalog (Crossfield et al. 2016), papers
describing M dwarf stellar characterization and candidates (Martinez et al., submitted; Dressing et
al., submitted & in prep.). We have been awarded large, multisemester programs at ESO (for spec-
troscopic follow-up), Keck (for Radial Velocity masses), and Gemini (for AO and speckle imaging).

The proposed targets comprise a key portion of the K2-MDP program which aims to reveal
hundreds of small planets around nearby M dwarfs. Discoveries of habitable zone, Earth-
like planets and planets suitable for atmospheric characterization are primary science
drivers for K2 and primary goals of NASA. Our program will provide both the small, rocky
planets and key transit spectroscopy targets for early JWST Guaranteed Time Observations (GTO)
leading up to the GTO proposal deadline in late 2016; well before the launch of TESS. We also
re-propose all candidates and validated planets identified by our team in C5 (Petigura et al. in prep;
Livingston et al. in prep), in order to more fully validate the remaining candidates and to measure
TTVs and more precise system parameters for the validated planets.

The PI, Ian Crossfield, will use the bulk of any funding to support a graduate student. The
funded Co-PIs will also receive smaller allocations to support travel for observing.