%R 2016k2.propGO16064
%T The Old Open Cluster M67 Revisited - A Comprehensive Stellar Astrophysical Study with Kepler
%A Mathieu, Robert D; Soderblom, David R; Basu, Sarbani; Latham, David W.; Tayar, Jamie Nicole; Davenport, James Robert Arthur; Valenti, Jeff A; Aigrain, Suzanne; Geller, Aaron M; Zinn, Joel Coyle; Esselstein, Rebecca A; Vanderburg, Andrew; van Saders, Jennifer Lynn; Meibom, Soren; Sandquist, Eric; Leiner, Emily; Silva Aguirre, Victor; Jenkins, Jon Michael; Stello, Dennis; Chatterjee, Sourav; Pinsonneault, Marc Howard 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 16 Guest Observer Proposal GO16064
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO16064
%B M67 is among the best studied of all star clusters. With an age and metallicity near solar, at a convenient distance, and rich in content (with 2000 members representing all standard phases of evolution from main sequence dwarfs, a well populated subgiant branch and red giant branch, white dwarfs, as well as tracers of non-standard stellar evolution such as blue stragglers, sub-subgiants, X-ray sources and CVs), M67 has been and remains a cornerstone of astronomical study. Equally significant, at an age of 4 Gyr M67 has nearly 100 solar analogues, allowing studies of the variations in properties of our Sun.

The ability to observe M67 was a significant motivation for the K2 mission. In addition to its scientific significance, the number of stars per unit area is well matched to the 4 arcsec pixels. In Campaign 5 a large superaperture on the cluster core efficiently captured 1700 stars, and yet is not too crowded to allow good results on faint members. At the same time, extensive prior studies permit efficient targeting of nearly 700 likely cluster members in the periphery.

We comprise a strong and diverse research team that led the Campaign 5 long-cadence study of M67. The team has extensive expertise with time-series photometry and Kepler in particular. We made the first unambiguous detection of solar-like oscillations in 32 red giants of M67, enabling for each direct measurement of stellar radius, mass and age; found no significant mass loss along the giant branch, unexpected in solar abundance giants; measured a mass of 2.9 ± 0.2 Mo for the yellow giant S1237, revealing it to be an evolved blue straggler with a formation history requiring three stars; and discovered four new detached eclipsing systems among main-sequence cluster members.

A second visit to M67 will re-observe at long cadence nearly 2,000 stars spanning Kp = 8 to 20 from Campaign 5, including 91% of the superstamp. Short-cadence observations will be made of 38 evolved stars. A major value-added resource product for the community will be light curves of the highest quality posted to MAST. Importantly, our team independently employs two widely-used and well-tested photometric pipelines to extract light curves from K2 data, so we can cross-check and verify any scientific results to obtain high confidence in their validity and accuracy.  With the addition of Campaign 16 data, we will: increase our frequency resolution and thereby determine internal evolutionary states and calibrate seismic scaling relations; increase surface-gravity precision to test evolutionary models; securely measure rotation periods to test new models of angular momentum evolution and anchor gyrochronology; detect oscillations in subgiants and thereby measure an independent cluster age; double our chances of detecting super flares at solar age; and increase our discovery space for small exoplanets or tighten our limits on exoplanet frequency.  Our team has broad and deep expertise in M67 specifically, with more than 40 refereed publications on the cluster. Mathieu will continue to provide scientific leadership for the project. Asteroseismology studies will be led by Stello, joined by Basu, Pinnsoneault, Silva Aguirre, Tayar and Zinn. Meibom, with Agrain, Esselstein, Pinsonneault, and Van Saders, will lead investigation of stellar rotation on the main sequence and angular momentum loss and redistribution during post-main sequence evolution. Vanderburg, Chatterjee and Jenkins will determine exoplanet frequencies. Sandquist, Latham and Mathieu will analyze the main-sequence eclipsing binaries. Soderblom, Davenport and Valenti will cover the evolution of stellar activity. Mathieu, Leiner and Geller will apply the time series to non-standard evolutionary paths such as blue stragglers and sub-subgiants.   We will make the best possible use that K2 observations of M67 can provide, both with targeting decisions, time series production for community use, and our own science results.