%R 2016k2.propGO13023
%T The K2 Young Suns Survey of the Hyades:  Using Kepler Light Curves of Low Mass Stars in the Hyades to Probe Early Stellar Evolution
%A Rebull, Luisa; Aigrain, Suzanne; Vrba, Frederick John; Stern, Robert A; Cody, Ann Marie; Valenti, Jeff A; Bouvier, Jerome; Stauffer, John R.; Pinsonneault, Marc Howard; Stassun, Keivan Guadalupe; Soderblom, David R; hillenbrand, lynne a 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 13 Guest Observer Proposal GO13023
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO13023
%B We propose to obtain light curves for about 200 low mass members of the Hyades open cluster in Campaign 13 of the K2 mission.  We will use these data to: (a) search for close-in gas giant planets orbiting members of the Hyades (and hence determine if being born in a dense environment affects the planet formation process); (b) identify eclipsing binary stars among the Hyades members, thereby providing new precision tests of stellar evolution models; and (c) determine properties of these stars related to their youth (spottedness, rotation period, flaring frequency) better than can be done from ground based observations.  By combining these data with similar data we have obtained for the Pleiades, M35, and Praesepe during the K2 field 4 and 5 campaigns, and with data we obtained with CoRoT for the 2 Myr old NGC 2264 open cluster, we will address how these properties evolve with time and as a function of stellar mass. A small number of Hyades members were included in the K2 Field 4 campaign - we will add the data for those stars to those we obtain for Field 13.  Our group has already identified one Hyades planet in the C4 data (David et al 2016, in press). The results from this program would add significantly to our knowledge of the origin and evolution of stars, thereby directly addressing one of the primary NASA astrophysics goals.   

We will use the same methodologies to analyze the new Hyades data that we have employed for our Fields 4 and 5 data (e.g., David et al. 2016 in press, David et al. 2015, Rebull et al. 2016 in prep, Stauffer et al. 2016 in prep).  Our team includes several  people who have developed their own K2 photometry and detrending packages.   We will therefore derive our own light curves from the raw K2 data, and use the K2-provided PDC light curves as the starting point in our analysis.  Our team also includes experts in the detection and characterization of eclipsing binaries and transiting planets (David et al. 2016 in press, David et al. 2015), as well as experts on open clusters in general and the Hyades in particular.  Finally, several team members have been involved for two decades or more in programs aimed at determining the angular momentum evolution of low mass stars and in measuring the rotational velocities of low mass stars - we will apply the same techniques developed by us for those past programs to analyze the new K2 data.