%R 2016k2.propGO14020
%T Ultra-short-period planets in K2
%A Adams, Elisabeth Rose; Law, Nicholas M; Jackson, Brian K; Endl, Michael 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 14 Guest Observer Proposal GO14020
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO14020
%B Ultra-Short-Period Planets in K2 Science Goals and Objectives  Ultra-short-period planets (those with orbits of a day or less) pose a severe challenge to theories of planet formation and evolution, but they also provide a wealth of observational constraints on planetary composition, internal structure, and more. For instance, the only rocky exoplanets for which mass estimates have been made (except for the few fortuitous systems that exhibit transit-timing variations) are those in ultra-short period orbits  Kepler-10 b and Kepler-78 b are two famous examples. Moreover, understanding the origins of ultra-short period planets may elucidate key processes in formation and evolution. Gas disk migration may have brought the objects in from where they formed but would require disks extending to nearly the stellar surfaces, contrary to observations and theoretical expectations that stellar magnetospheres truncate gas disks much farther out. On the other hand, if such planets were scattered in by dynamical interactions with other planets in the system, then we would expect to find additional planets around most stars with ultra-short-period planets, making those systems good targets for follow-up radial velocity searches. Furthermore, ultra-short-period planets that are the cores of evaporated hot Jupiters are likely much denser than planets similar to Earth that were scattered in, offering a way to test the frequency of each theoretical formation method -- if the targets are bright enough for us to collect high-precision radial velocity data to measure the mass.

We propose to collect photometric observations of stars that may host ultra-short period planets (with periods < 1 day) using the K2 mission. We will convert the raw K2 images into light curves and search for transits. We will follow up putative transit candidates with spectral, radial velocity, and high-spatial resolution observations to continue the already fruitful and exciting search for ultra-short period planets. All candidates and their suitability for followup will be regularly published and updated online for the general community.

Targets  Our targets are bright main-sequence G-M stars, select specifically so they will be most suitable for radial velocity (RV) mass measurements. All targets have been checked to fall on K2 silicon (code 2). We request that our targets be observed even if this proposal is not selected for funding.

Methodology  For Task 1, we will generate photometric time series from the raw K2 images, and the Kepler PyKE python package provides the necessary capabilities, based on Vanderburg & Johnson (2014). For Task 2, we will detrend light curves and apply an automated search algorithm (EEBLS  Kovacs et al., 2002) to find transits, as we have with previous campaigns (Adams et al. 2016). We will also perform photometric and pixel-level analyses to vet candidate signals. For Task 3, for vetted candidates, we will characterize host stars and collect RV observations using low-precision spectra to rule out binaries and blend scenarios. For available targets, we will collect and analyze precise RVs from the HRS spectrograph on the Hobby-Eberly Telescope (HET) at McDonald Observatory to confirm candidates as planets and estimate their masses. For targets inaccessible from McDonald, we will propose for follow-up observations at another suitable facility (e.g. Keck). We will also conduct high-spatial resolution observations using the Robo-AO system to rule out possible blend scenarios masquerading as planets and to get accurate stellar and planetary parameters.

Relevance  This proposal will use the unique capabilities of the K2 mission to look for an unusual and astrophysically compelling class of planet.

References
Adams, E., Jackson, B., & Endl, M. 2016, AJ, 152, 47
Kovacs, G., Zucker, S., & Mazeh, T. 2002, AAP, 391, 369 
Vanderburg, A., & Johnson, J. A. 2014, PASP, 126, 948