%R 2016k2.propGO12013
%T Variability of Luminous Quasars as a Function of Accretion Rate
%A Richards, Gordon T; Kasliwal, Vishal Pramod; Vogeley, Michael S. 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 12 Guest Observer Proposal GO12013
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO12013
%B Active Galactic Nuclei are known to exhibit rapid, high-amplitude flux variability across the electromagnetic spectrum. Variability in the optical is observed at the 10% level in 99% of quasars. The cause of quasar variability is not known, but current theories suggest that the variations may be attributable to a combination of small-scale variations in the accretion disk viscosity that are triggered by localized dynamo processes, accretion disk instabilities, large scale fueling-rate variations, and complex oscillations of the accretion disk. Optical variability may be driven by X-ray variability which itself may be generated by flares in the accretion disk. Physical mechanisms for variability introduce causal correlation into the light curves of quasars i.e. it may be possible to probe the physical drivers of quasar variability by studying the correlation structure of their light curves.

One of the challenges in understanding the physics of quasar variability is that, while one can compute an average quasar spectral energy distribution, there is no "standard" quasar.  The diversity of quasars is seen in their radio and X-ray continuum and UV emission lines and can be characterized by the mass-weighted accretion rate or Eddington ratio (L/LEdd).  Exploring quasar variability as a function of that diversity is the focus of this work.

We will explore the amplitude/timescale of short-time variability as determined by Kepler---as a function of those quasar properties that exhibit the largest dispersion (and thus represent quasar extrema). The goal being to try to understand if quasars at opposite extremes have different short time variability that is manifested in the Kepler data and can constrain quasar physics.  There are 1238 quasars in the Campaign 12 area for which such an investigation can be conducted.

We will further compare the amplitude/timescale of short-time variability as determined by Kepler to the long-time variability as determined by SDSS (and the combination of SDSS and Kepler).  Here we will compare the variability to the expected variability from a Damped Random Walk (which is the same at both short and long timescale) and to a CARMA model (which can be different at short and long timescales).  Again, the goal is to constrain quasar accretion physics.  There are 808 quasars in the Campaign 12 area that have existing SDSS time domain data for which such an investigation can be conducted.

Bright objects (i<~19.25, which amounts to about 12% of the samples) can be studied individually.  Fainter objects can contribute to this work through stacking analysis.  Specifically, we will group the quasars by like UV (also radio and X-ray) properties and treat the light curves from them as the light curve from a single mean source.

Without a better understanding of differences in quasar variability across the diversity of quasar emission line properties, we will not be able to fully understand the physics of quasar variability.  The combination of known SDSS quasars (many with existing time domain information) with new K2 data would be an incredibly powerful tool for AGN variability analysis.  While future K2 fields will also cover part of the SDSS footprint, this is the last field that is planned to overlap with the Stripe 82 region of SDSS where there exists time domain data. Thus this is rare opportunity that would be a shame to miss.