%R 2016k2.propGO13117
%T A K2 Monitoring Survey of Young Stars in Taurus: Star and Disk Structure at 1 Myr
%A Cody, Ann Marie; Turner, Neal; Bouvier, Jerome; Aigrain, Suzanne; Terebey, Susan; Stauffer, John R.; Rebull, Luisa; Carey, Sean Joseph; Stapelfeldt, Karl R; hillenbrand, lynne a; Carpenter, John M; Padgett, Deborah 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 13 Guest Observer Proposal GO13117
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO13117
%B Young star forming regions in the 110 Myr age range are well known for stellar photometric variability. Brightness fluctuations arise from starspots, flares, accretion, protoplanetary disk obscuration, and eclipses. Much effort over the past decades has been dedicated to connecting light curve features with stellar and circumstellar properties. Yet the nearest young stellar associations have traditionally been too spatially dispersed to obtain high quality light curves for more than a handful of stars. The K2 Mission is rectifying this situation with exquisite photometric datasets encompassing tens of degrees on the sky.  In Campaign 2, we monitored the ~10 Myr Upper Scorpius association. Now in Campaign 13, we propose to gather light curves for 215 members of ~1-Myr-old Taurus, arguably the best studied nearby star forming region. The envisioned combination of K2 light curves, ground-based spectroscopy and spectropolarimetery, as well as disk imaging will furnish a legacy dataset for years to come.  It will provide a valuable comparison to the preexisting Upper Sco data, since the youthful Taurus stars accrete more strongly and host more massive disks.

Our science program will consist of four intertwined aims: by gathering high-precision light curves for Taurus members, we will assess the rotation rate distribution in the context of other young clusters; identify and analyze pre-main-sequence eclipsing binaries; search for circumstellar obscuration events to learn about the inner protoplanetary disk; and correlate observed variability patterns with accretion and magnetic field geometry inferred from complementary spectropolarimetric observations. For each science goal, we will derive high-precision, systematic detrended light curves from K2 pipeline products, and we will classify the variability therein using established statistical metrics (e.g., Cody et al. 2014). Photometric amplitudes in the <1% to 100+% range are expected, with fluctuations on timescales from hours to weeks. K2 is therefore well suited to probing a wide range of physical phenomena associated with these young stars.

Once variability patterns have been identified, we will follow up with high resolution spectroscopy for eclipsing binaries or planetary transits, and spectropolarimetry (CFHT/ESPaDOnS; SPIROU) for stars with signatures of accretion bursts and/or photospheric spots.  Light curves with circumstellar extinction events will be compared with known properties from ongoing millimeter observations from ALMA. This work will establish stellar properties such as masses and radii, as well as illuminate the geometry of the inner disk and its connection to the central star. A better understanding of (circum-)stellar properties at this early epoch is in direct support of K2s goals to enhance our knowledge of stellar and planetary astrophysics. This work is relevant to several key science areas including planet detection and stellar variability.