%R 2016k2.propGO14088
%T Quasar Variability as a Function of Accretion Rate
%A Richards, Gordon T; Kasliwal, Vishal Pramod; Vogeley, Michael S. 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 14 Guest Observer Proposal GO14088
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO14088
%B Active Galactic Nuclei are known to exhibit rapid, high-amplitude flux variability across the electromagnetic spectrum. Variability in the optical is observed at the 10% level in 99% of quasars. The cause of quasar variability is not known, but current theories suggest that the variations may be attributable to a combination of small-scale variations in the accretion disk viscosity that are triggered by localized dynamo processes, accretion disk instabilities, large scale fueling-rate variations, and complex oscillations of the accretion disk. Optical variability may be driven by X-ray variability which itself may be generated by flares in the accretion disk. Physical mechanisms for variability introduce causal correlation into the light curves of quasars i.e. it may be possible to probe the physical drivers of quasar variability by studying the correlation structure of their light curves.

One of the challenges in understanding the physics of quasar variability is that, while one can compute an average quasar spectral energy distribution, there is no "standard" quasar. The diversity of quasars is seen in their radio and X-ray continuum and UV emission lines and can be characterized by the mass-weighted accretion rate or Eddington ratio (L/LEdd). Exploring quasar variability as a function of that diversity is the focus of this work.

We will explore the amplitude/timescale of short-time variability as determined by Kepler---as a function of those quasar properties that exhibit the largest dispersion (and thus represent quasar extrema). The goal being to try to understand if quasars at opposite extremes have different short time variability that is manifested in the Kepler data and can constrain quasar physics. There are nearly 20,000 known quasars in the Campaign 14, 15, and 16 fields for which such an investigation can be conducted.  We propose to observe 2128 of the brightest targets.

We will further compare the amplitude/timescale of short-time variability as determined by Kepler to the long-time variability as determined by SDSS (and the combination of SDSS and Kepler). Here we will compare the variability to the expected variability from a Damped Random Walk (which is the same at both short and long timescale) and to a CARMA model (which can be different at short and long timescales). Again, the goal is to constrain quasar accretion physics.

Bright objects (i<~19.25, which amounts to about 12% of the samples) can be studied individually. Fainter objects can contribute to this work through stacking analysis.  Specifically, we will group the quasars by like UV (also radio and X-ray) properties and treat the light curves from them as the light curve from a single mean source.

Without a better understanding of differences in quasar variability across the diversity of quasar emission line properties, we will not be able to fully understand the physics of quasar variability. The combination of known SDSS quasars with new K2 data makes for an incredibly powerful tool for AGN variability analysis.