%R 2016k2.propGO14073
%T Evolution of Spin States in Transneptunian Binaries
%A Grundy, Will; Ragozzine, Darin A; Thirouin, Audrey; Ryan, Erin Lee; Porter, Simon Bernard 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 14 Guest Observer Proposal GO14073
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO14073
%B We propose K2 observations of 22 transneptunian objects to constrain their spin states and learn about their formation environment in the protoplanetary nebula.  We are especially targeting binaries and potential binaries.  Their spin states preserve observable and interpretable signatures of their formation circumstances.  They are also subject to subsequent dynamical evolution, notably tidal despinning, offering opportunities to learn about those processes as well.  Disentangling these influences calls for a large sample of well-characterized systems to enable statistical comparison of ensemble properties across the various sub-populations.  This proposal contributes toward the goal of assembling that sample.  We will observe all known transneptunian binary systems on silicon during C14-C16, as well as a number of potential binaries.  K2s ability to observe continuously is key to teasing apart the rotational modulations of unresolved multi-body systems if they are different, or being able to determine that they are not, in cases where they have become tidally locked like Pluto and Charon.

We have assembled a team with all necessary expertise to fully capitalize on the data.  We have experience working with K2 data and have a proven processing pipeline.  We have a strong track record in both observational and theoretical Kuiper belt studies, including analysis of photometric lightcurve data, orbit determination, and dynamical modeling.

This project would be impractical from the ground.  The targets are faint, and weeks or even months of observing time would be needed to confidently extract the weak modulation from a fainter secondary not tidally locked to its primary.  K2 is ideally suited for this work.  Long cadence exposures provide adequate temporal resolution.

One of NASA's key strategic goals in planetary science is advancing knowledge of the origin and history of the Solar System.  This proposal is aimed squarely at that goal, specifically for the transneptunian region where our targets formed.  We aim to shed light on how the Sun's inventory of planets and minor bodies originated and subsequently evolved to its current dynamical configuration and compositional state.  Observations of the Cold Classical sub-population of transneptunian objects also provide valuable context for NASA's upcoming flyby and detailed study of one such object, 2014 MU69, along with the more distant observations of a larger sample of them that New Horizons is doing as it cruises through that region of the Kuiper belt.