%R 2016k2.propGO13008
%T Zodiacal Exoplanets in Time (ZEIT): The Hyades Cluster
%A Mann, Andrew Withycombe; Gaidos, Eric; Rizzuto, Aaron C; Muirhead, Philip Steven; Kraus, Adam L 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 13 Guest Observer Proposal GO13008
%D 03/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO13008
%B Time is a critical but relatively unexplored parameter in research on extrasolar planets. Planets evolve as a result of accretion, atmospheric escape, cooling, and gravitational interactions with companion stars or other planets. By studying planets over a range of ages it is possible to infer the effect of these processes, including the timescales over which they operate and their relative importance on the final planetary system architecture. However, the vast majority of planetary systems, including those discovered by the Kepler and K2 missions are much older (Gyr) than the timescales of interest (Myr to hundreds of Myr) and/or have poorly or completely unconstrained ages. Thus they provide little insight on planetary evolution. K2 is observing star-forming regions and young stellar clusters with ages of 1-850 million years.  Of these, Hyades is the closest (45 parsecs) and hence its members brightest, facilitating the discovery of planets, especially around the lowest-mass members. In Campaign 4, K2 observed the edge of the Hyades cluster. However, because only a small part of the cluster was within the field of view, the observed sample was relatively small and thus far we have identified only a single exoplanet. During Campaign 13, K2 will point directly at the core of the Hyades, observing many more member stars.  This larger dataset will provide many more targets for detailed follow-up and facilitate a comparison between the properties of young and old planets. We propose K2 observations of 200 late-type (late K and M) dwarfs that are confirmed or candidate members of the Hyades and fall on K2 silicon in Campaign 13.  In addition to established members from the literature we have constructed a sample of high probability members based on their photometry and proper motions. We have already built a transit-search pipeline optimized for the fast rotating and highly variable young stars, which we have successfully employed on K2 observations in Hyades, Pleiades, and Praesepe. Once candidates are identified we will carry out follow-up observations to estimate the fundamental stellar parameters of these stars, assess their membership to the Hyades cluster, and where possible, constrain the mass and orbital alignment of the planet.