%R 2016k2.propGO16069
%T Long-term K2 monitoring of exotic binaries in the old star cluster M67
%A Grindlay, Jonathan E.; van den Berg, Maureen 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 16 Guest Observer Proposal GO16069
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO16069
%B The old open cluster M67 has been a long-standing benchmark for stellar evolution studies. Detailed radial-velocity and pro-permotion studies have enabled an excellent separation between cluster members and fore- or background stars. Yet, even in the resulting clean sample of cluster members, we see stars that occupy parts of the color-magnitude diagram that defy explanation in the context of the standard evolution scenarios for single and binary stars. Blue stragglers that lie beyond the main-sequence turnoff point, have been known and studied for decades, but a complete picture of their formation is still lacking. The class of red stragglers or sub-subgiants, which lie below or to the red of the base of the giant branch, is a more recent discovery; attempts to understand their origin presents us with similar challenges. While examples of these and other stellar oddities are found in other old open clusters as well, the proximity, low reddening, and large body of existing data, make M67 one of the very few clusters where we can derive an accurate and long-term characterization of these systems' properties.  We propose to obtain light curves for about ten "anomalous" binaries in M67 that are known photometric variables, to complement their existing light curves obtained with a variety of instruments. By tracking the evolution in the light curves, we gain more insight in the configuration of the systems, and the physical mechanism(s) that underlie the photometric variation (magnetic spot activity versus heating, tidal-distortion or other effects). For the blue straggler S1082, the long-term tracking of the 1-day eclipse light curve provides a larger sample of eclipse timings; in turn, this enables a more accurate solution of the ephemeris and an improved measurement of the observed-minus-computed (O-C) times of the primary eclipses (compared to the initial analysis in van den Berg et al. 2001, A&A, 375, 375). This will serve to look for periodicities in the (O-C) residuals, potentially caused by the motion of the eclipsing binary around a third body, whose presence was seen in optical spectra. The dynamical link between the the third star (with an orbital period of about 1200 d; Sandquist et al. 2003) and the close eclipsing binary has not been proven, but could be established with the suggested (O-C) timing analysis. If S1082 is indeed a hierarchical triple, the complex nature of the system points at a formation scenario that involves at least five stars. For the sub-subgiant S1063, the period of the variability (about 23 d, see van den Berg 2013; confirmed by K2 campaign 5 photometry, see Nardiello et al. 2016) matches neither the spectroscopically derived orbital period, nor the expected rotation period, which makes the highly active corona that is inferred from the X-ray emission all the more puzzling. In this system, long-term monitoring of the shape and stability of the light curve constrains the processes that are active in this system. There are several more puzzling binary systems in M67 that we propose to observe in K2 Campaign 16. Each of these is interesting in its own right, but all have in common that they are valuable systems to explore so-far poorly understood paths of stellar and binary evolution.  Number of targets: About 10  Methods: For the proposed targets, the new K2 light curves complement existing light curves, including those from K2 campaign 5; light curves published in van den Berg et al. 2001, van den Berg et al. 2002, and van den Berg 2013; and unpublished time-series obtained by the PI. Analyis of the combined light curves (shape/periodicity/long-term changes) using a combination of existing and custom-made software form the basis of the techniques to be used.  Relevance of proposed research to this solicitation: The goals of this proposal are relevant to NASA's Strategic Goal to "explore the origin and evolution of the galaxies, stars and planets that make up our universe".