%R 2016k2.propGO16028
%T Planets Around Low-Metallicity Stars (K2 GO5)
%A Cochran, William D.; Yong, David; Rauer, Heike; Fridlund, Malcolm Carl Wilhelm; Paetzold, Martin; Endl, Michael 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 16 Guest Observer Proposal GO16028
%D 12/2016
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO16028
%B Objectives:
A major result from surveys for extrasolar planets that has dramatically shaped our thinking about the formation of planetary systems is the very strong tendency for gas-giant planets to be found around metal-rich stars.  This trend is not seen, however, around super-Earth and Earth-size planets (Buchhave et al 2015).  We propose to search a large sample of sub-solar metallicity ([Fe/H] < 0.0) stars in the fields of K2 GO Cycle 5 Campaigns 14, 15, and 16 for transiting planets of all sizes.  Stars in this metallicity range fall into three populations: a) the thin-disk (which also extends into super-solar metallicity), b) the thick-disk, and c) the halo (which extends to extremely metal poor stars). These three populations differ both kinematically and chemically.  Thick disk stars exhibit a larger vertical scale height in the galactic orbits, and they also show alpha-capture element abundances enhanced by about a factor of two over thin-disk stars.  Halo stars show even more extreme kinematics and also exhibit significant enhancement of alpha-capture elements.  K2 field 14, being located at high galactic latitude, will be especially important for its larger fraction of thick disk and halo stars than are found in fields at lower galactic latitude. The discovery of the Kepler-444 system (Campante et al 2015), which comprises five sub-Earth size planets orbiting an ancient (11.2 Gy age) thick-disk star with significantly sub-solar metallicity ([Fe=H]=-0.69 +/- 0.09 dex) shows that planet formation started very early in the history of the galaxy.  We will obtain the data necessary to compute planet occurrence rates for stars as a function of stellar metallicity, stellar population and of planet radius.  For stellar metallicity, we will consider not just the standard [Fe/H] abundance, but also the abundance of the very important alpha-capture elements.  The goal of our program is to determine the characteristics of the first stars in our Galaxy to form potentially habitable planetary systems.

Methodology:
We have assembled a large, diverse and highly experienced international team for this investigation.  The DLR group (led by Dr. H. Rauer) will extract the K2 photometry and model the light curves.  The Cologne group (led by Dr. M.  Paetzold)  will search the light curves for planetary transit signatures.  The groups at Texas (led by proposal PI Dr. W.  Cochran) and the European KESPRINT consortium (represented in this proposal by Dr. M. Fridlund) will conduct extensive followup observations including ground-based photometry, high precision RV measurement, high resolution optical and near-IR spectroscopy in order to confirm the planetary candidates and Doppler tomographic analysis of any rapidly rotating planetary candidates.  The group at Australian National University (led by Dr. D. Yong) will perform detailed spectral analysis of our follow-up data in order to derive stellar parameters and chemical abundances.

Targets:
We will propose a large sample of 2952 targets.  They range in V magnitude from about 6.4 to 12.4, with a median magnitude of 10.3.  Thus, according to Aigrain et al (2015, MNRAS, 247, 2880) we expect to obtain a 6.5 hour CDPP of about 80 ppm or better.

Relevance:
We are searching for new exoplanetary systems. These results will provide important new constraints on the physics and chemistry of planetary system formation, as well as provide constraints for the computation of planet occurrence rates. We will address the Kepler mission goals of obtaining an inventory of the diversity of planetary systems around sun-like stars. We will also obtain data very complementary to the goals of the TESS program, and help guide planetary system science for JWST studies.