%R 2018k2.propGO18023
%T Zodiacal Exoplanets In Time: The Search For Long-Period Planets And Eclipsing Binaries In Praesepe
%A Mann, Andrew; Agueros, Marcel; Gosnell, Natalie; Kraus, Adam; Newton, Elisabeth; Rizzuto, Aaron; Vanderburg, Andrew 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 18 Guest Observer Proposal GO18023
%D 04/2018
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO18023
%B Planets are not born in their final state; rather, interactions with their environment drive dramatic changes in a planet’s dynamical, structural, and atmospheric properties. These alterations are the most dramatic in the first Gyr, which has motivated the search for younger planets to better understand the dominant physical drivers of such changes. However, identification of planets during this era is complicated by increased stellar variability and because ages of stars (and their planets) are difficult to determine. Thus the overwhelming majority of planets discovered by Kepler and earlier surveys are old (>1 Gyr) or have poorly constrained/unknown ages, and are ineffective for studying exoplanet evolution.

K2 has observed of a number of young clusters and star forming regions with known ages (Praesepe, Hyades, Pleiades, Upper Scorpius, and Taurus-Auriga), enabling the discovery of planets ranging from 5-800 Myr by our (ZEIT) and similar surveys (e.g., Obermeier et al. 2016; Mann et al. 2017). From these data we have shown that young planets are statistically larger than their older counterparts (Figure 1a, Mann et al. 2016a), and that while at least some planets migrate through interaction with their protoplanetary disk (Mann et al. 2016b; David et al. 2016), most super-Earth- and Neptune-sized planets migrate through a slower process, taking 100-800 Myr to reach short orbital periods (Figure 1b, Rizzuto et al. in prep).

While the existing young exoplanet sample has proven enormously useful for studies of exoplanet evolution, we are limited heavily by the range of orbital periods probed by K2 (<30 days). The third visit to Praesepe in Campaign 18 offers a unique opportunity by providing high-precision photometry spanning three years. Here we propose for K2 observations of Praesepe targets observed in earlier campaigns; the combination enables the discovery of planets and EBs at periods far outside the reach of earlier campaigns alone.