%R 2018k2.propGO19003
%T Planets and Stellar Populations
%A Cochran, William; Endl, Michael; Gandolfi, Davide; Patzold, Martin; Rauer, Heike 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 19 Guest Observer Proposal GO19003
%D 04/2018
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO19003
%B A major result from high precision radial velocity surveys of local field stars for extrasolar planets that has dramatically shaped our thinking about the formation of planetary systems is the very strong tendency for gas-giant planets to be found around metal-rich stars (Gonzalez, 1997; Fischer & Valenti, 2005). Local field dwarfs with a metallicity enhancement of only a factor of two over the solar value show a three- to four-fold increase in the frequency of close-in giant-planet companions. The giant-planet occurrence rate continues to drop at sub-solar metallicity, with very few known planetary systems around stars with [Fe/H] < −0.8 1 . This observed correlation of giant-planet frequency and stellar metallicity is most easily understood within the context of the core-accretion model of planet formation (e.g. Pollack et al., 1996). Gas giant planet embryos form beyond the “ice-line” where there is an abundance of solid material to form a planetary core. Those planets that reach the stage of rapid gas accretion while there is still a substantial circumstellar disk can migrate inward through gravitational tidal interactions with the disk. Thus, the correlation of giant planets with stellar metallicity might result naturally from the larger abundance of planet-building material in the disk surrounding a metal-rich star. However, there are two important caveats to this observed relationship. First, the observed distribution has a long tail extending to low-metallicity stars. This means that giant-planets can indeed form at a reduced rate around relatively metal-poor stars, perhaps still by core accretion or possibly by some other planet-building process such as disk gravitational instability (Boss, 2002). An open question remains as to whether there is a low-metallicity threshold for giant-planet formation (Mordasini et al., 2012). Second, this correlation is not seen for super-Earth and Earth-size planets (Buchhave et al., 2012). Thus, the relationship between the elemental abundances of the parent star and the architectures of the planetary systems is not nearly as simple and obvious as was commonly thought several years ago.