%R 2018k2.propGO17054
%T Gyrochronology and Magnetic Activity in Wide Binaries with K2
%A Otani, Tomomi; Buzasi, Derek; Davenport, James; Oswalt, Terry 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 17 Guest Observer Proposal GO17054
%D 04/2018
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO17054
%B Precise ages for field stars are a critical fundamental parameter for advancing our knowledge of the Milky Way’s formation history. Likewise, understanding exoplanetary formation and habitability depends on accurate stellar ages. Stars lose angular momentum as they age, causing their rotation rates to slow over time (Skumanich 1972). Assuming stars are born with an initial distribution of rotation periods and gradually spin down, this angular momentum evolution provides a useful clock – a technique known as "gyrochronology". As the stars spin down the internal magnetic dynamo also diminishes; this process has been dubbed "magnetochronology". As rotation slows, decreased magnetic activity results in smaller starspot filling factors, lower levels of X-ray and UV emission, and decreased flare rates. Flares have been recently shown to decline as stars spin down. However, ~12% of flaring wide binaries in Kepler show differing levels of flare activity between components (Clarke & Davenport in Prep).

While stellar rotation is reliably recovered for many stars with Kepler/K2 (Aigrain et al. 2015), the accuracy of ages determined from these periods is debated, with typical uncertainties of ~1 Gyr. Furthermore, prescriptions for gyrochronology relations have been devised using a variety of calibrations, ranging from young open clusters at fixed ages (e.g. Barnes 2010, Meibom et al. 2011), to asteroseismology-based ages for solar mass stars (e.g. Angus 2015). None of these models yield reliable or uniform age estimates for stars at all ages and masses. Widely separated common proper motion binary stars provide a unique benchmark for testing these competing gyrochronology relations across all masses and ages, and for potentially creating an independent spin-down calibration. The range of rotation rates, ages and masses among the wide binaries selected for our study can populate the entire rotation-mass-age surface and help resolve the current disagreement between rotation and asteroseismology ages (cf. García et al. 2014; Barnes et al. 2016; dos Santos et al. 2016; Gonzales 2016; van Saders et al. 2016).

We are proposing for long cadence observations of ~180 wide binary systems (total 369 stars) with K2 Campaign 17, 18, and 19. Our study has three objectives: 1. Calibrate the stellar rotation–age paradigm using wide main sequence (MS) binaries, where components are coeval and have evolved independently; and 2. Quantify the flaring rate among the MS+MS binaries as a function of age. This dataset will build on our previous successful proposal for total ~1060 binaries from Campaign 5, 14, 15, as well as the ~200 systems in the original Kepler field. In total, we hope to create a publicly available catalog of wide binary systems at a range of masses and ages to calibrate evolution of the age-rotation–activity relation.