%R 2018k2.propGO19024
%T Demystifying the extreme horizontal branch stars using K2 seismology
%A Reed, Mike; Telting, John; Baran, Andrzej S; Jeffery, Christopher Simon; Ostensen, Roy H. 
%J Kepler/K2 Campaign 19 Guest Observer Proposal GO19024
%D 04/2018
%I DATA: https://archive.stsci.edu/k2/data_search/search.php?action=Search&ktc_investigation_id=GO19024
%B The stars that are spectroscopically classified as subdwarf B (sdB) stars are found in the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram between the main sequence and the white dwarf cooling track. They are compact stars and the majority are located on the blue extension of the horizontal branch, earning them the designation extreme horizontal branch (EHB) stars. They are helium burning cores of low-mass stars (<2.0 solar masses) that ignited helium through the core-helium flash when their cores reached the required mass of 0.47 solar mass. They have effective temperatures between 20000 and 40000K and the surface gravities (in logarithmic cgs units) between 5.0 and 6.0. (Heber 2016). For the envelope to become this thin, some process, which is still under investigation, must have stripped off the majority of the mass during or immediately after the first red-giant branch stage. Subdwarf B stars are idealized laboratories for studying the deep interiors of helium burning red giants, and can provide important constraints on their evolution.

Kilkenny et al. (1997) discovered the first pulsating sdB (sdBV) star and this has opened the way to study their interiors using asteroseismology. Charpinet et al. (1997) calculated theoretical models of sdBV stars and explained the flux variations as pressure (p) modes driven by the kappa-mechanism, which works on iron opacities, the so-called Z-bump. When sdBV stars were discovered, a monitoring of their flux variation was limited to ground-based observations. Therefore, observations with decent coverage were limited to those pulsators that were fairly bright and showed relatively high pulsation amplitudes and short periods. These objects could be reliably observed with relatively small telescopes so that they could be observed for durations sufficient to explore the detailed structure of the pulsations. The amplitude spectra of ground based data showed many peaks associated with pulsation modes. However, in spite of dedicated efforts on many targets, features that could allow mode identification were usually not found.

The sdBV stars were high-priority targets observed by the Kepler spacecraft from the onset. During the original mission (K1), a survey of ~100 compact pulsator candidates was undertaken (Østensen 2010, 2011), and almost 20 such objects were discovered. They were monitored for up to 3.5 years, which helped us to obtain an exceptionally low noise level and unprecedented frequency resolution, leading to discoveries of many rotationally split multiplets and reliable asymptotic period spacings. These two features are very useful in mode identification, owing to which the application of asteroseismology should be easier than in case of sdBV stars observed from the ground. During the K2 mission, thus far, we have found another 29 sdBV stars. The total sample of stars observed from space is now comparable with the one observed from the ground, though, the superior precision of the former is making them much more relevant for modeling purposes. We expect to find/observe more sdBV stars during the remaining Campaigns 17-19 of K2 mission.